
 
 
 March 30, 2025 ( 2025-03-30 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Red Sea crisis 
 Israel intercepts a ballistic missile fired from Yemen in the eighth Houthi attack since the Israeli Defense Force resumed the Gaza war . The Houthis claim to have launched three attacks with drones , missiles , and naval forces against the aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman in the past 24 hours. ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Myanmar earthquake 
 Structures and infrastructure affected by the 2025 Myanmar earthquake 
 The count of the total amount of destroyed ancient pagodas and religious buildings in Myanmar rises to 61, including the previously unreported Four-Storied Monastery in Inwa , Mandalay Region . (NP) 
 Severe weather and tornadoes break out in the areas between south Indiana and north east Texas , United States . ( The New York Times ) 
 Three children are killed and three other people are injured after a tree hits their vehicle near Kalamazoo, Michigan . (AP) 
 A 7.0 M w earthquake strikes near the island country of Tonga with a 6.1 M w aftershock . A tsunami warning is issued and later lifted. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Middle Eastern crisis 
 Iranian president Masoud Pezeshkian says that Iran will not have direct negotiations with the U.S. on its nuclear program , but is open for indirect talks to rebuild trust, after U.S. president Donald Trump threatened "bombing" if Iran does not agree to a new nuclear deal. (Al Jazeera) (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A bus driver shoots and kills two passengers on a Miami-Dade Transit bus in Miami Gardens , Florida , United States. (AP) 
 Science and technology 
 
 German space programme 
 The uncrewed German -built Spectrum orbital rocket is launched in And ya , Norway , becoming the first orbital rocket to launch from mainland Europe . The rocket stays in the air for just over half a minute before striking the ground and exploding. ( The Guardian ) (VG) 
 Month March 2025 Previous day March 29 Next day March 31 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_March_30&oldid=1283447258 "