
 
 
 July 6, 2023 ( 2023-07-06 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 2023 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russia launches a Kalibr cruise missile attack on Lviv from the Black Sea , killing 10 civilians and injuring 48 others. Ukrainian forces say that they shot down seven of the ten missiles. (Reuters) (Lviv City Council) 
 Arab Israeli conflict 
 Israel shells Lebanon in response to rocket fire from the Lebanese side of the border . (Al Jazeera) 
 The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy captures a commercial ship in the Persian Gulf involved in smuggling activity. (RFE/RL) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Indonesia Netherlands relations , Foreign relations of Sri Lanka 
 The Dutch government announces plans to repatriate 478 colonial -era artifacts to Indonesia and Sri Lanka . (AFP via The Jakarta Post ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A large fire on a cargo ship docked at the Port Newark Elizabeth Marine Terminal in the Port of New York and New Jersey , United States , kills two firefighters and injures five others. (Reuters) 
 Eight people are killed by a landslide in Shangla District , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2023 Asia heat wave 
 The government of Beijing , China , orders employers to suspend outdoor work due to extreme temperatures expected to reach 40 C (104 F). (AP) 
 Geologists predict an imminent eruption of the Fagradalsfjall volcano in Iceland due to land uplift and earthquake swarms in the Reykjanes Peninsula . The volcano last erupted in 2022 . (Iceland Review) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Wimbledon school crash 
 Two children are killed and 16 other people are injured when a car crashes into a primary school in Wimbledon , London , United Kingdom . (BBC News) 
 Month July 2023 Previous day July 5 Next day July 7 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_July_6&oldid=1169536471 "