
 
 
 June 12, 2023 ( 2023-06-12 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Syrian civil war , Russia Turkey relations 
 Turkish artillery shelling kills a Russian soldier and injures four others in northern Aleppo governorate , Syria . (ABC News) (SOHR) 
 Ituri conflict 
 At least 46 people are killed by CODECO in an IDP camp in the Bahema Badjere district of Ituri , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (Reuters) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Pat Sajak announces his retirement from the American game show Wheel of Fortune after 41 seasons, having hosted the show since 1981. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Moldova Ukraine relations 
 Moldova and Ukraine sign an agreement to build a bridge across their border over the Dniester river between Cos u i , Moldova, and Yampil , Ukraine, bypassing the unrecognised state of Transnistria . (Yahoo! News) 
 Eritrea rejoins the Intergovernmental Authority on Development trade bloc almost 16 years after suspending its membership in 2007. (AFP via Al-Ahram ) 
 UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay announces that the United States will reapply for membership in July, after the Trump administration withdrew the United States from the agency in 2018. (AFP via The Manila Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Mexican general election 
 Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard resigns and announces he will run for president of Mexico in the 2024 elections. The mayor of Mexico City , Claudia Sheinbaum , also announces that she will resign on Friday to focus on running for president. (Al Jazeera) 
 Death and state funeral of Silvio Berlusconi 
 Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi dies in Milan at the age of 86. (BBC News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Discoveries of exoplanets 
 Astronomers announce in the journal Nature Astronomy the discovery of BEBOP-1c, an exoplanet orbiting the binary star system, TOI-1338 . The system is the second discovered to have more than one circumbinary planet . (Space.com) 
 Most major communities on social media site Reddit implement a temporary "blackout" in response to proposed changes to third-party access to Reddit's API . (Sky News) 
 The Swiss Federal Administration reports a distributed denial of service attack on some of its websites. ( The Business Times ) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 NBA playoffs 
 In basketball , the Denver Nuggets win their first NBA title after defeating the Miami Heat in five games of a best-of-seven series in the NBA Finals . Serbian center Nikola Joki is named Most Valuable Player . (ESPN) 
 Month June 2023 Previous day June 11 Next day June 13 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_June_12&oldid=1256033235 "