
 
 
 September 16, 2022 ( 2022-09-16 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Western Russia attacks 
 A civilian is killed and two others are injured by Ukrainian shelling on Valuyki , Belgorod Oblast , according to Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov . (UrduPoint) (MSN) 
 Internal conflict in Myanmar 
 2021 2022 Myanmar insurgency 
 Myanmar Army helicopters attack a school in Sagaing Region , Myanmar , killing six children and injuring 17 people. Military officials say that the school was being used as a base by anti- coup insurgents. ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 2022 Kyrgyzstan Tajikistan clashes 
 According to Kyrgyzstan, Tajik forces again open fire on its outposts and clashes occur along the border with Tajik forces using armored vehicles and mortars . Tajikistan accuses Kyrgyz forces of shelling one of its outposts and several villages. (Reuters) (Al Jazeera) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the performing arts 
 The Phantom of the Opera , currently the longest-running show in Broadway history, announces that it will end production in February 2023, stating that a decline in attendance caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has made it unable to recoup the weekly costs of running the show. ( The New York Times ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 American computer hardware company EVGA terminates its partnership with fellow hardware manufacturer Nvidia and withdraws completely from the graphics card market, alleging that the latter forced them to sell their cards at a loss and would refuse to disclose important information, such as sales numbers. ( The Verge ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 23 European windstorm season 
 Ten people are killed, 50 others are injured, and three people are reported missing as floods hit Ancona , Marche , Italy . (Reuters) 
 2022 South Asian floods 
 Twelve people are killed by heavy rains in Lucknow , Uttar Pradesh , India , with nine of the people killed when a wall collapsed. (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak in Asia 
 Bahrain confirms its first case of monkeypox . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Killing of Mahsa Amini 
 Widespread protests occur in Iran after a woman is detained and allegedly beaten to death in Tehran by officers from Iran's religious police system for not properly wearing her hijab . (The Guardian) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Salvadoran general election 
 Incumbent President Nayib Bukele announces that he will run for re-election in 2024, one year after the Supreme Court ruled that he was eligible to do so despite a constitutional ban on presidential re-election . (Al Jazeera) (Reuters) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 15 Next day September 17 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_16&oldid=1111646612 "