
 
 
 January 8, 2024 ( 2024-01-08 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russia launches a massive missile and drone attack across Ukraine , killing at least four people and injuring 38 others in Dnipropetrovsk , Kharkiv , Khmelnytskyi and Zaporizhzhia Oblasts. Ukraine says that it shot down all eight drones and 18 of 51 missiles. (AP) (Reuters) 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Wissam al-Tawil , the deputy commander of Hezbollah 's Redwan Force , and a militant is assassinated in an Israeli airstrike in Majdel Selm , Lebanon . (Reuters) 
 Hezbollah launches a drone attack on Israel's Northern Command headquarters in Safed marking its deepest incursion into Israeli territory since the outbreak of hostilities. (Middle East Monitor) 
 War in Sudan 
 The SPLM-N (al-Hilu) together with the SAF clashed with the RSF in the Nuba Mountains , while the SAF launched airstrikes on an RSF camp in Al-Dabaibat, north of Dalang . (Sudan Tribune) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Twenty-five people are killed and six others are injured in a crash involving a truck and a tourist minibus on a highway near S o Jos do Jacu pe , Bahia , Brazil . (ABC News) (G1) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A two-year-long investigation conducted by the BBC accuses Synagogue Church of All Nations founder T. B. Joshua of rape and torture. (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Farmers block highway access roads in parts of Germany , launching a week of protests against a government plan to remove tax breaks on diesel used in agriculture. (BBC News) 
 French prime minister lisabeth Borne resigns at the request of French president Emmanuel Macron amid political turmoil over immigration reform. (Associated Press) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Nuclear program of Iran 
 According to De Volkskrant , a Dutch engineer recruited by the General Intelligence and Security Service of the Netherlands released the malicious computer worm Stuxnet in an Iranian nuclear complex in 2007, disrupting the Iranian nuclear program for years. (NOS) ( The Times ) 
 Peregrine Mission One , the first US lunar lander since the Apollo program , is launched at Cape Canaveral in Florida , United States . It later suffers from a fuel leak, making it unable to complete its objective. ( The Guardian ) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 NCAA Division I FBS football season 
 2024 College Football Playoff National Championship 
 The University of Michigan beats the University of Washington 34 13 in the 2024 College Football Playoff National Championship game for NCAA Division I football . (NBC News) 
 Month January 2024 Previous day January 7 Next day January 9 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_January_8&oldid=1239544848 "