
 
 
 July 27, 2023 ( 2023-07-27 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive 
 Ukrainian forces reportedly retake the village of Staromaiorske , Donetsk Oblast . (CNN International) 
 2023 Nigerien coup d' tat 
 Supporters of the military coup against President Mohamed Bazoum set fire to the headquarters of the ruling Nigerien Party for Democracy and Socialism in Niamey , Niger . (BBC News) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Six people are killed and 20 others are injured during a bombing at the Sayyidah Zaynab 's Shi'ite mosque in Rif Dimashq Governorate , Syria . (AFP via Hindustan Times ) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The government of Rome , Italy , announces the discovery of Roman emperor Nero 's private theatre under the courtyard of the Palazzo Della Rovere . (CNN) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least 27 people are killed and six others are missing when a boat capsizes in Laguna de Bay off the coast of Binangonan , Rizal , Philippines . (AP) 
 One person is killed and 84 others are injured by a chlorine gas leakage at a sewage plant in Qena , Egypt . ( Egypt Independent ) 
 An evacuation is ordered due to an explosion of an ammunition dump of an air force base in Nea Anchialos , Magnesia , Greece , due to the ongoing wildfires . (DW News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Climate change 
 United Nations Secretary-General Ant nio Guterres declares that Earth has entered an "age of global boiling" as scientists confirm that this year's heat waves have been some of the hottest in recorded history . ( The Guardian ) 
 International relations 
 
 China North Korea relations , North Korea Russia relations 
 North Korean Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un , Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu and a Chinese delegation meet in Pyongyang to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the cessation of hostilities during the Korean War . Kim and Shoigu also attend an exhibition of North Korean ballistic missiles , which have been prohibited by multiple United Nations resolutions endorsed by China and Russia . (Reuters) 
 Papua New Guinea United States relations 
 United States Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin announces the deployment of a Coast Guard Cutter to Papua New Guinea in August. (AFP via The Manila Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment in Kuwait 
 Kuwait executes five men, including one involved in the suicide bombing of a mosque in 2015 . (AP via ABC News) 
 USA Gymnastics sex abuse scandal 
 A lawsuit is filed against Michigan State University in Michigan , U.S. , accusing the school of "illegal secret votes" to prevent the release of 6,000 documents in the case of an investigation involving Larry Nassar , who was sentenced to 40 to 175 years in prison in 2018. ( PBS NewsHour ) 
 Sports 
 
 China India relations 
 The government of India withdraws the Indian Wushu team from the Summer World University Games in Chengdu , China , in order to protest against the issuance of Chinese stapled visas to three of the athletes who are from the state of Arunachal Pradesh , as the issuance of such visas is seen as an attempt by China to assert territorial claim over the state. ( India Today ) 
 Month July 2023 Previous day July 26 Next day July 28 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_July_27&oldid=1168037648 "