
 
 
 November 14, 2024 ( 2024-11-14 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 2024 Beqaa Valley airstrikes 
 Fifteen rescue workers are killed during an Israeli airstrike on the Regional Civil Defense Centre 's headquarters in Baalbek , Lebanon . (BBC News) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 The Russian Defence Ministry claims that Russian forces have captured the village of Voznesenka in Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine . (Anadolu Agency) 
 Odesa strikes , Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 One person is killed and ten others are injured in Russian airstrikes on an apartment building and energy facilities in Odesa , Ukraine. (Reuters) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Israel's role in the Syrian civil war 
 Sixteen people are killed and 15 others are injured in Israeli airstrikes against residential buildings in Damascus , Syria . The Palestinian Islamic Jihad announces that a number of its militants are among the fatalities. (Al Mayadeen) (Al Jazeera) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 In Balochistan , Pakistan , two soldiers and three insurgents are killed during a raid in Harnai District . Separately, two civilians are killed and three injured after an explosion in Ziarat District . (TRT World) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 A Pakistani Taliban commander accidentally detonates a car bomb at his house in Mir Ali , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan, killing himself and six other people. Fourteen others are also wounded. (AP) 
 Haitian crisis 
 Doctors Without Borders reports that at least two patients are dead after police officers and vigilantes attacked ambulances in Port-au-Prince , Haiti . (Semafor) (CNN) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 25th Annual Latin Grammy Awards 
 Dominican singer Juan Luis Guerra is the biggest winner with four awards. ( Billboard ) 
 It is announced that the Kingda Ka roller coaster , the world's tallest roller coaster , will be retired at the Six Flags Great Adventure amusement park in New Jersey , United States . (KYW-TV) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The Onion , an American media company known for its satirical news content , acquires InfoWars , with the intent of rebranding the site into a parody of itself. ( The New York Times ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Pacific typhoon season 
 More than 24,000 people are evacuated as Typhoon Usagi makes landfall in Baggao , Cagayan , Philippines . (DW) 
 Health and environment 
 
 A study published in the medical journal The Lancet reports that the number of adults who have diabetes globally has increased from 200 million people in 1990 to around 800 million people in 2022. The study also reported that around 40% of adults with diabetes are not receiving treatment for the disease. (DW) ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Sri Lankan parliamentary election 
 Sri Lankans vote in a snap election for the 225 members of the 17th Parliament of Sri Lanka . ( Morning Star ) (DW) 
 Nauru launches an investment initiative which offers Nauruan citizenship in exchange for investment in climate change mitigation . (RNZ) 
 Month November 2024 Previous day November 13 Next day November 15 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_November_14&oldid=1272628303 "