
 
 
 November 22, 2022 ( 2022-11-22 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 missile explosion in Poland 
 Germany says that it will deploy Patriot surface-to-air missile systems on the Poland Ukraine border in order to protect Polish airspace . Polish Defense Minister Mariusz B aszczak says that he has accepted the German proposal. ( International Business Times ) 
 Boko Haram insurgency 
 2022 Chad attack 
 Ten Chadian soldiers are killed and many others injured in an attack by Boko Haram in Lac Region , Chad . (Reuters) 
 South Thailand insurgency 
 One person is killed and 30 others injured in a car bombing at a police compound in Narathiwat , Thailand . (Al Jazeera) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 At least 14 people, including eight Volunteers for the Defense of the Homeland members, are killed in two separate attacks by jihadists in northern Burkina Faso , with one occurring near Markoye , Oudalan . (AFP via Free Malaysia Today) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A helicopter crashes in Charlotte, North Carolina , United States , killing the pilot and a meteorologist , both WBTV news station employees. (CNN) 
 International relations 
 
 Australia India relations 
 Australia India Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement 
 The Australian parliament ratifies a free trade agreement with India . (Times Now News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2022 Chesapeake shooting 
 Six people are killed and four others injured during a mass shooting at a Walmart Supercenter in Chesapeake, Virginia , United States. The perpetrator, identified as the supermarket's store manager, kills himself after the shooting. (CNN) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 FIFA World Cup 
 The Saudi Arabia national football team defeats Argentina 2 1 in an upset. With this loss, Argentina fails to equal Italy 's record 37-match unbeaten streak in international football . (NPR) 
 Month November 2022 Previous day November 21 Next day November 23 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_November_22&oldid=1123842359 "