
 
 
 April 4, 2023 ( 2023-04-04 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Syrian civil war 
 Israel's role in the Syrian civil war 
 The Israeli Air Force launches airstrikes near Damascus , killing two civilians , according to Syrian state media . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says that an "unknown number" of Iran -backed militants were also killed in the strikes, which targeted a counter-battery radar in As-Suwayda Governorate , and a glass factory in al-Kiswah , Rif Dimashq Governorate . (France 24) 
 War against the Islamic State 
 United States Central Command says that U.S. forces killed senior Islamic State leader Khalid 'Aydd Ahmad al-Jabouri, who was allegedly planning attacks in Europe during Easter , in an overnight raid in rebel-held northwest Syria . The U.S. also says that there were no civilian casualties in the raid. (Reuters) 
 Islamic State Taliban conflict 
 Six Islamic State members are killed during a raid by the Taliban in Balkh Province , Afghanistan . (Al Arabiya) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Satellite launch service provider Virgin Orbit files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after failing to secure long-term funding. The California -based company announces that it will layoff 85% of its workforce. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Voorschoten train crash 
 One person is killed and 50 others are injured, nineteen of them hospitalized, when a train derails in Voorschoten , South Holland , Netherlands . (BBC News) 
 Seven people are killed and eleven others are injured in an avalanche in Nathu La , Sikkim , India . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Enlargement of NATO 
 Finland NATO relations 
 Finland officially joins NATO , becoming the 31st member of the military alliance and expanding NATO's border with Russia by 1,300 kilometres (810 mi). ( Time ) (BBC News) 
 China India relations 
 Sino-Indian border dispute 
 The Ministry of Civil Affairs of China standardizes the names of 11 places in the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh in a renewed attempt to assert Chinese territorial claim over the state. (Times of India) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Personal and business legal affairs of Donald Trump 
 Indictment of Donald Trump 
 Former U.S. President Donald Trump pleads not guilty to falsifying business records and to making a hush money payment to Stormy Daniels at a Manhattan court. (CBS News) ( The Independent ) 
 Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg formally announces the indictment of Trump. ( Bronx Daily ) 
 A court in the United Kingdom rules that the High Court of Justice has no jurisdiction over a lawsuit presented by a creditor against Cuba and Cuba's Central Bank over unpaid loans from the 1980s. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Peruvian political crisis 
 Peruvian protests 
 The Congress of Peru votes against the petition of impeachment of President Dina Boluarte over the alleged killings of protesters during the ongoing protests, amid a worsening volatility in the country's politics . (Reuters) 
 2023 Chicago mayoral election 
 Brandon Johnson wins a runoff election for mayor of Chicago . (Politico) 
 Science and technology 
 
 The United Kingdom 's Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) fines TikTok 12.7m for "failing to protect the privacy of children" on the online video platform . It is one of the largest fines ever issued by the ICO. (BBC News) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 3 Next day April 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_4&oldid=1208020587 "