
 
 
 August 28, 2023 ( 2023-08-28 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 2023 western Russia attacks 
 Russia says that it shot down two aerial drones over the north and west of Crimea . (Al Jazeera) 
 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive 
 Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant crisis 
 The International Atomic Energy Agency warns that Ukraine 's offensive in Zaporizhzhia Oblast has increased the risk of damage to the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant . (Al Jazeera) 
 Ukraine claims they retook the village of Robotyne , Zaporizhzhia Oblast from the Russian forces . Russia says they have repelled attacks in the area. (Reuters) 
 Russia United States relations 
 Russia's Federal Security Service charges Robert Shonov, a former U.S. consulate employee, with passing information on Russia's mobilization campaign to U.S. embassy staffers in Moscow . (Al Jazeera) 
 Mali War 
 Malian Air Force jets bomb the town of Anefif , attempting to strike Coordination of Azawad Movements troops, but miss. (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Mexican drug war 
 The Mexican government says that it has deployed 1,200 more troops to the Mexican state of Michoac n after drug cartel violence has been reported over the weekend. (ABC News) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Military forces clash with the insurgent Ta'ang National Liberation Army in northern Shan State , Myanmar , following reinforcements to the area in recent days. (The Irrawaddy) 
 South Thailand insurgency 
 Two defence volunteers and a policeman are killed, and five other officers are wounded, during an ambush in Yarang district , Pattani province , Thailand . (Bangkok Post) 
 2023 Sudan conflict 
 Head of the Rapid Support Forces Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo publishes a 10-point plan that proposes a non-symmetrical federal system and a new apolitical Sudanese Army . (Al Jazeera) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2020 2023 Chinese property sector crisis 
 Trading of Evergrande resumes on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange after a 17-month suspension with the company confirming its compliance with financial information disclosure and listing regulations. (AFP via The Philippine Star ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Three people are killed and two others are injured in a building collapse in Ismailia , Egypt . ( Al-Ahram ) 
 International relations 
 
 Iran says it has reached an agreement with Iraq to disarm and relocate Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq and shut down bases run by the groups in the semi-autonomous region. (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment in Iraq 
 Iraq announces the execution by hanging of three members of the Islamic State for the 2016 Karrada bombing which killed hundreds of people. (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Polish railway cyberattack 
 Poland arrests sixteen people on suspicion of spying for Russia in relation to a cyberattack on Polish railways . ( The Washington Post ) 
 A Chilean court upholds the prison sentences ranging from eight to 25 years for seven former soldiers involved in the 1973 murder of singer V ctor Jara , which occurred after the coup d' tat that ushered in Augusto Pinochet 's dictatorship . (AFP via CNA) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Guatemalan general election 
 The Registry of Citizens of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal suspends the legal personality of Movimiento Semilla , the party of President-elect Bernardo Ar valo . ( Prensa Libre ) 
 2024 Taiwanese presidential election 
 Foxconn founder Terry Gou announces that he will run as an independent in next year's presidential election on a platform of restoration of positive Cross-Strait relations and closer business ties. (Al Jazeera) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 FIBA Basketball World Cup 
 Cape Verde and South Sudan , who both make their World Cup debut, score their first-ever wins at the tournament. After first-round losses to Georgia and Puerto Rico , the African teams defeat Venezuela and China . (AP) 
 Month August 2023 Previous day August 27 Next day August 29 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_August_28&oldid=1237191857 "