
 
 
 April 8, 2025 ( 2025-04-08 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2025 Belgorod Oblast incursion 
 Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy confirms the presence of Ukrainian troops in Russia 's Belgorod Oblast . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Jet Set nightclub roof collapse 
 At least 124 people, including Dominican politician Nelsy Cruz and former Major League Baseball players Tony Blanco and Octavio Dotel , are killed and 160 others are injured when the roof of a nightclub collapses during a performance by merengue singer Rubby P rez , who is among the dead, in Santo Domingo , Dominican Republic . (NBC News) ( El Pa s ) 
 The death toll from the heavy flooding in Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , caused by overflow of the Ndjili River increases to 33 deaths. Hundreds of buildings are completely submerged and thousands of people are trapped in their homes. (NPR) (DW) 
 About 50 hippos are killed by anthrax poisoning at Virunga National Park in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . (CTV News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2020 2025 H5N1 outbreak 
 Mexico reports its first human death from bird flu subtype H5N1 which caused multiple organ failure in a three-year-old girl in Torre n , Coahuila . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Democratic Republic of the Congo coup attempt , Democratic Republic of the Congo United States relations 
 Three U.S. citizens have their sentences for attempting a coup against the Congolese President F lix Tshisekedi in 2024 commuted and are extradited back to the United States . They were previously sentenced to death along with 34 others for the failed attempt that killed six people, including the coup's leader Christian Malanga . (NPR) 
 Mass shootings in the United States 
 Three people are killed and three others are injured in a mass shooting in Spotsylvania County , Virginia , United States. (Fox News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Asylum in Germany 
 The German Federal Office for Migration and Refugees orders a temporary halt to a United Nations refugee resettlement program which it has participated in since 2012, citing the change in government . The new coalition government is expected to restart the program when a new interior minister is announced. (DW) 
 Associated Press v. Budowich , Second presidency of Donald Trump 
 U.S. district judge for the District Court of D.C. Trevor N. McFadden orders the White House to restore the Associated Press 's full access to cover presidential events on First Amendment grounds, overruling the Trump administration 's previous order to ban the news agency after it refused to refer to the Gulf of Mexico as the " Gulf of America ". (AP) ( The Hill ) 
 Month April 2025 Previous day April 7 Next day April 9 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_April_8&oldid=1284879018 "