
 
 
 February 19, 2024 ( 2024-02-19 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Democratic Republic of the Congo Rwanda tensions 
 Rwanda rejects the United States ' calls to withdraw troops and missile systems from the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo , citing threats from an alleged Congolese military build-up near the border. (AP) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Twelve gunmen are killed in a shootout with the Mexican Army in Ciudad Miguel Alem n, Tamaulipas . (AP) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 The Houthis claim to have shot down a United States MQ-9 Reaper drone in the Red Sea . (Fox News) 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah clashes 
 Israeli airstrikes target Hezbollah sites in Marwahin , Sidon , Meiss El Jabal and al-Adisa in southern Lebanon in response to the launch of a UAV toward the Lower Galilee . (Jerusalem Post) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Capital One announces a deal to acquire Discover Financial for $35.3 billion. (CNN) (CNBC) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Four people are killed, three are injured, and 17 are missing after a building collapses in Beirut , Lebanon . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Brazil Israel relations 
 Israeli Foreign Minister Israel Katz says that Brazilian president Luiz In cio Lula da Silva is a persona non grata in Israel until he retracts his comments comparing the war between Israel and Hamas to the Holocaust . In response, Brazil recalls its ambassador to Israel. (Reuters) (Reuters 2) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment in Pakistan 
 The Senate of Pakistan rejects a bill that would allow public hanging of rapists . ( The News Pakistan ) 
 The International Court of Justice holds public hearings on the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories . (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 NASCAR Cup Series 
 In stock car racing , William Byron wins the 66th Daytona 500 . It is team owner Rick Hendrick's ninth victory in the event. (Reuters) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 18 Next day February 20 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_19&oldid=1239536289 "