
 
 
 September 12, 2023 ( 2023-09-12 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Mali War 
 Tuareg fighters from the Platform coalition of rebels capture the town of Bourem from Malian forces, bringing an end to the 2015 peace treaty between the rebels and the Malian government. (Africanews) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Storm Daniel 
 The death toll from the floods caused by Storm Daniel in northeastern Libya increases to 6,000 people, with thousands more reported missing. Government of National Stability minister Hisham Chkiouat confirms that entire neighbourhoods have been destroyed in Derna . (Al Jazeera) (BBC News) (CNN) 
 At Salzburg Zoo in Austria , a zookeeper is killed and another is injured by a rhinoceros in its enclosure. The zoo remains closed. (AFP via ABS-CBN News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 The New South Wales government in Australia bans logging in a 8,400- hectare forest area, identified as home to 106 " koala hubs", as part of a conservation effort to establish a 315,000-hectare Great Koala National Park. (AFP via RFI) 
 International relations 
 
 North Korea Russia relations 
 2023 North Korea Russia summit 
 North Korean leader Kim Jong Un arrives in Russia for a summit with President Vladimir Putin . (NBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 1Malaysia Development Berhad scandal 
 The Malaysian Court of Appeal upholds the acquittal of former prime minister Najib Razak and former 1MDB chief Arul Kanda Kandasamy on charges of audit tampering related to the sovereign wealth fund 's corruption investigation. (AFP via The Jakarta Post ) 
 Impeachment inquiry into Joe Biden 
 Kevin McCarthy , the speaker of the United States House of Representatives , announces an impeachment inquiry into President Joe Biden. This inquiry led by Representative James Comer will be conducted by the House's Judiciary Committee , Oversight Committee and Ways and Means Committee . (Associated Press) 
 A Regional Trial Court in Pasig , Philippines , acquits Rappler Holdings Corporation and its CEO , Nobel Peace Prize awardee Maria Ressa , in the fifth and final tax evasion case against the corporation. (CNN) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Aftermath of the 2023 Guatemalan general election 
 The office of the Attorney General carries out raids in the offices of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal and opens electoral boxes containing the electoral ballots. The Supreme Electoral Tribunal condemns the raids. ( Prensa Libre ) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 11 Next day September 13 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_12&oldid=1200858407 "