
 
 
 October 13, 2024 ( 2024-10-13 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 Israeli attack on Ramyah UNIFIL post 
 Two Israel Defense Forces Merkava tanks forcibly enter a UNIFIL base in Ramyah , Bint Jbeil District , Lebanon . The tanks fire rounds at the base, injuring fifteen United Nations peacekeepers . (BBC News) 
 Israeli airstrikes destroy an Ottoman -era market in Nabatieh , Lebanon , killing at least one person and injuring four others. (AP) 
 2024 Hezbollah drone strike on Binyamina 
 Four Israeli soldiers are killed and 61 others are injured in a Hezbollah drone strike on Binyamina-Giv'at Ada , Israel . ( Times of Israel ) 
 Gaza war 
 United States support for Israel in the Gaza war 
 United States Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin authorizes the deployment of a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense missile defense system to Israel to help boost the country's air defences. (Al Jazeera) (Reuters) 
 An Israeli attack on a school used to shelter displaced Palestinians kills at least 22 people, including fifteen children, in the Nuseirat refugee camp in northern Gaza . (BBC News) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Foreign involvement in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy states that North Korean troops have been deployed to Ukraine to fight alongside the Russian military . (Reuters) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Battle of Khartoum , October 2024 Sudan airstrikes 
 At least 23 people are killed and 40 others are injured in a Sudanese Armed Forces airstrike on a marketplace in an area of Khartoum , Sudan , currently controlled by the Rapid Support Forces . (DW) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Two people are killed and 20 others are injured in a train collision in Minya Governorate , Egypt . ( Al Ahram ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Lithuanian parliamentary election 
 Lithuanians vote in the first round of elections to elect the 141 members of the Seimas . (AP) 
 2024 Macanese Chief Executive election 
 Sam Hou Fai is elected as the new Chief Executive of Macau by the Election Committee, succeeding Ho Iat Seng . (Reuters) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Starship flight test 5 
 SpaceX completes its fifth test flight of the Starship spacecraft, successfully catching the rocket booster with the arms of the launch tower at Starbase in Texas , United States , and with the spacecraft landing in the Indian Ocean . (Space.com) (CNBC) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 Chicago Marathon 
 Kenyan runner Ruth Chepng'etich runs 2:09:56 to break the world record for women's marathon by 1 minute and 57 seconds at the Chicago Marathon . (AP) 
 Month October 2024 Previous day October 12 Next day October 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_October_13&oldid=1273131108 "