
 
 
 June 26, 2024 ( 2024-06-26 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip , Bombing of the Gaza Strip 
 An Israeli airstrike on a home in Beit Lahiya in North Gaza kills at least 15 Palestinians . (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 Bolivian coup attempt 
 President Luis Arce accuses military general Juan Jos Z iga of plotting a coup , and calls for a general strike and blocking of roads to prevent the coup. The attempted coup fails. (Reuters) (AP) 
 Bolivian general Juan Jos Z iga is arrested following his failed coup attempt. (Reuters) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Niger 
 Niger 's ministry of defence announces three days of national mourning following yesterday's ambush of security forces near the village of Tassia in Tillab ri Region , which killed at least 20 soldiers and a civilian and injured several others. (Al Jazeera) 
 Kivu conflict 
 Two South African soldiers are killed and twenty others are injured in a mortar attack on a South African National Defence Force logistics base in Sake , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (SABC News) 
 Unidentified attackers open fire on a Tunisian military patrol near the border with Libya , killing a soldier, according to the Tunisian Ministry of Defence . (Al Arabiya) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Three fishermen are found dead following heavy rainfall and winds that caused coastal flooding along New Zealand 's eastern coast. (1 News) 
 Twenty people are killed following two days of heavy rains in Nepal . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Russia European Union relations , Belarus European Union relations 
 The leaders of Poland , Lithuania , Latvia , and Estonia call on the European Union to construct a 2.5 billion (US$2.67 billion) defence line between them and Russia and Belarus to secure the EU from military, economic, and migrant-related threats. (Reuters) 
 Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte is formally selected as the next NATO Secretary-General . (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 International Criminal Court investigation in Mali 
 The International Criminal Court convicts Malian Islamist Al Hassan Ag Abdoul Aziz of Ansar Dine on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity. (Reuters) 
 German government ministers agree on legislation to expedite deportation for individuals who post or " like " social media content that celebrates or promotes terrorist acts. (DW) 
 Former Honduran President Juan Orlando Hern ndez is sentenced to 45 years in prison and fined $8 million for drug trafficking and firearms offences in a U.S. federal court. (CNN) (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 United States House of Representatives elections in New York 
 Incumbent New York representative Jamaal Bowman loses a Democratic Party primary challenge against George Latimer in the 16th district , in what has become the most expensive House of Representatives primary in history by campaign spending. (BBC News) ( The New York Times ) 
 Kenya Finance Bill protests 
 President William Ruto withdraws the controversial Kenya Finance Bill 2024 following an assault on the parliament that killed multiple people. (Reuters) 
 France's government orders the dissolution of several far-right and radical Muslim groups prior to the upcoming legislative election due to their violence, discrimination, and hate speech toward different races, women, and LGBTQ+ people . (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 NBA Draft 
 In basketball , the first day of the draft for the National Basketball Association is held at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn , New York , U.S. , with the Atlanta Hawks selecting French player Zaccharie Risacher with the first overall pick . (Africa ESPN) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 25 Next day June 27 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_26&oldid=1231711902 "