
 
 
 June 16, 2023 ( 2023-06-16 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 2023 bombing of Kherson 
 Russian forces attack Kherson , injuring 23 civilians and damaging infrastructure. ( The Kyiv Independent ) 
 A peace mission visit of African officials to Ukraine is interrupted by a Russian missile attack according to the Ukrainian Air Force , which says it has shot down six Kinzhal ballistic missiles , six Kalibr missiles, and two reconnaissance UAVs . (AFP via Yahoo! News) 
 Allied Democratic Forces insurgency 
 Mpondwe school massacre 
 Forty-one people are killed, including 38 students, eight others injured and at least six kidnapped during an attack by five Allied Democratic Forces jihadists at a secondary school in Mpondwe , Western Region , Uganda . (Al Jazeera) 
 Insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir 
 Five foreign militants are killed in a gunfight with police in Kupwara district , Jammu and Kashmir , India . (Reuters) 
 Mali War 
 Foreign Minister Abdoulaye Diop requests the United Nations Security Council to terminate its peacekeeping mission in the country immediately, citing its "failure" to help improve the situation. (Al Jazeera) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The United States -based Recording Academy , organizer of the annual Grammy Awards , announces that songs incorporating artificial intelligence (AI) may be considered for awards, provided there is a significant human creative contribution. However, songs purely generated by AI are ineligible for awards, and only human creators are eligible. ( Time ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 More than 80 people are injured in a multiple-vehicle collision involving three school buses in Hongcheon County , Gangwon Province , South Korea . (Reuters) 
 A magnitude 4.8 earthquake strikes Niort , Deux-S vres , Nouvelle-Aquitaine , France , injuring two people and severely damaging hundreds of buildings. (BBC News) 
 The village of Brienz/Brinzauls in Grisons , Switzerland , is narrowly missed by an overnight 2 million m 3 (71 million cu ft) rockslide. The village of 128 residents had been evacuated in May after scientists predicted the imminent rockslide. (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Pittsburgh synagogue shooting 
 The gunman in the 2018 Pittsburgh synagogue shooting in Pennsylvania , the deadliest antisemitic attack in U.S. history , is found guilty on 63 charges . (ABC News) 
 Japan raises the age of consent from 13 to 16 and criminalises voyeurism . (AFP via The Guardian ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 2023 in archosaur paleontology 
 A study in Science Advances reveals that Chilean Antarctic Institute scientists have discovered fossils from an unprecedented herbivorous hadrosaur called Gonkoken nanoi , which inhabited Patagonia 72 million years ago. (CNA) 
 Month June 2023 Previous day June 15 Next day June 17 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_June_16&oldid=1161347734 "