
 
 
 April 2, 2024 ( 2024-04-02 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks in Russia during the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukraine launches airstrikes more than 1,000 kilometres (620 mi) inside Russia , targeting an oil refinery and the dormitory of a factory producing Iranian -designed Shahed drones in Yelabuga , Tatarstan . Several people are injured. ( The Guardian ) (Al Jazeera) 
 Dnipro strikes 
 Eighteen people, including five children, are injured in a Russian missile strike in Dnipro , Ukraine. (Reuters) 
 Iran Israel conflict during the Syrian civil war 
 Israeli bombing of the Iranian embassy in Damascus 
 Iran's Supreme National Security Council says that it has decided on a response to the Israeli attack on its diplomatic facilities in Damascus , Syria , which killed several high-ranking members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . ( The Guardian ) 
 Ethnic violence in South Sudan 
 Armed youths belonging to the Murle people attack a village in Greater Pibor Administrative Area , South Sudan , killing 12 people and injuring 10 others, with 15 children reported missing. Most of the victims were elderly residents. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Gayrettepe nightclub fire 
 Twenty-nine people are killed and eight others are injured in a fire at a nightclub under renovation in Istanbul , Turkey . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Mexican general election 
 A mayoral candidate is assassinated in Celaya , Guanajuato , ahead of Mexico 's upcoming general election. (CNN) 
 Viertola school shooting 
 A student is killed and two others are injured in a shooting at a school in Vantaa , Uusimaa , Finland . A 12-year-old student is detained. (AP) (Yle) 
 Business and economy 
 
 General Electric finalizes split into 3 independent companies: GE Aerospace , GE Vernova and GE HealthCare . (Reuters) . 
 Month April 2024 Previous day April 1 Next day April 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_April_2&oldid=1218707462 "