
 
 
 June 28, 2023 ( 2023-06-28 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2023 Sudan conflict 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Airstrikes are reported in the Sudanese capital Khartoum , while heavy fighting takes place in Omdurman despite a ceasefire declared by both sides for the Islamic holiday Eid al-Adha . (Al Jazeera) 
 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
 Four Armenian soldiers are killed by Azerbaijani forces in the separatist region of Artsakh . (AFP via France 24) 
 Two students and a professor are stabbed and injured in a gender-studies classroom at the University of Waterloo in Waterloo, Ontario , Canada . The suspect, a recent university graduate, has been arrested and charged. The attack is believed to be motivated by hatred related to "gender expression and gender identity." (CBC News) (CTV News) 
 A man opens fire near the United States consulate in Jeddah , Saudi Arabia , killing a security guard, before being shot dead during a shootout . (Arab News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Titan submersible implosion 
 Debris from the submersible Titan has been returned to land after the submersible experienced a fatal implosion during its voyage to the wreck of the Titanic last week. (BBC News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2023 Canadian wildfires 
 Smoke from the wildfires in Canada reaches the U.S. states of West Virginia , Tennessee , Delaware , Maryland , North Carolina , Iowa , Missouri , Minnesota , South Dakota , Pennsylvania , Kentucky , and New Jersey , with the smoke also reaching the capital, Washington, D.C. (WUSA-TV) (KCRG-TV) (ABC News) (WHTM-TV) (WYMT-TV) 
 Smoke from the wildfires in Canada reaches Portugal and Spain . ( Hoy ) 
 International relations 
 
 Canada Iran relations 
 Iran brings charges against Canada at the International Court of Justice for allegedly violating Iran's state immunity by designating it a sponsor of terrorism . (AFP via France 24) 
 Mexico Peru relations 
 Chile assumes a temporary presidency of the Pacific Alliance from Mexico amid a diplomatic conflict which saw Mexico refusing to hand over the presidency to Peru due to the removal of president Pedro Castillo in December 2022. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Killing of Nahel Merzouk 
 Riots occur in several French towns following the killing of a teenager by a police officer in Nanterre , Hauts-de-Seine , le-de-France . At least 31 people are arrested, 25 police officers are injured, and 40 vehicles are destroyed in arson attacks. (Al Jazeera) 
 LGBT rights in Nepal 
 The Supreme Court of Nepal provisionally approves same-sex marriage , pending a final ruling. (AFP via SCMP ) 
 The Swedish Police Authority authorizes a protest involving the burning of a Quran outside the Stockholm Mosque on the first day of Eid al-Adha , aligning with a court of appeal ruling that deemed security concerns insufficient grounds for denying the request. (AFP via The Manila Times ) 
 The Criminal Court of Thailand acquits a student activist and four others of obstructing Queen Suthida 's motorcade during the 2020 pro-democracy protests in Bangkok . The group faced a potential sentence of up to 16 years in prison or execution under Thailand's l se-majest laws. (AFP via The Manila Times ) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 NHL Entry Draft 
 The NHL Draft is held in Nashville , Tennessee with the Chicago Blackhawks drafting Connor Bedard with the first overall pick . ( Chicago Tribune ) (Audacy) 
 2023 MLB season 
 Domingo Germ n of the New York Yankees throws the 24th perfect game in Major League Baseball history. (CBS Sports) 
 Month June 2023 Previous day June 27 Next day June 29 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_June_28&oldid=1166046489 "