
 
 
 December 13, 2022 ( 2022-12-13 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
 2021 2022 Armenia Azerbaijan border crisis 
 2022 Artsakh blockade 
 The Lachin corridor , the only link between Armenia and the unrecognized Republic of Artsakh , is blocked by a group of Azerbaijani citizens described as environmental activists by state media. The protesters say that they are calling attention to what Azerbaijan says is illegal mining in Nagorno-Karabakh as well as the use of the road to transport the minerals to Armenia. The protesters' action leaves hundreds of Karabakh cars stranded on other sections of the highway. (RFE/RL) 
 Republic of Artsakh officials report that Azerbaijan has blocked the flow of gas to Artsakh through Armenia . (Eurasianet) 
 Allied Democratic Forces insurgency 
 Eleven Allied Democratic Forces militants are killed and eight are arrested during a gunfight with Ugandan soldiers in Ntoroko , Uganda . A soldiers is also killed and three civilians injured. (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 2022 inflation surge 
 Economy of Ghana 
 Ghana and the International Monetary Fund agree on a three-year loan agreement worth US$ 3 billion. (AFP via WION) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Kinshasa floods 
 At least 141 people are killed and dozens are injured during heavy floods and landslides in Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (Radio Pakistan) 
 International relations 
 
 2017 present Peruvian political crisis 
 Mexico Peru relations 
 Mexican president Andr s Manuel L pez Obrador says that his government will continue to recognize detained former Peruvian president Pedro Castillo as president of Peru and says that relations between both countries are now "paused". (europapress via La Naci n ) 
 Accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Union 
 The European affairs ministers of the European Union agree to upgrade Bosnia and Herzegovina 's application status on December 15, formally recognising the country's candidacy to join the union. (AFP via Khaleej Times ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Fusion power 
 The United States Department of Energy announces the achievement of fusion ignition by the National Ignition Facility at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory . (Energy.gov) (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 FIFA World Cup 
 Argentina defeats Croatia 3 0 and advances to the final , where they will play against France . It is Argentina's sixth appearance in the World Cup final and their first appearance since 2014 . (CNN) 
 Month December 2022 Previous day December 12 Next day December 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_December_13&oldid=1128768147 "