
 
 
 August 19, 2023 ( 2023-08-19 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Palestinian political violence 
 Two Israelis from Ashdod are killed in an attack in Huwara in the occupied West Bank . The Israel Defense Forces launches a manhunt for the assailant and closes off roads in the area. ( Times of Israel ) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Chernihiv missile strike 
 At least seven people are killed and 129 others are injured in a Russian ballistic missile strike on a theater in Chernihiv hosting a meeting of military and engineers at an exhibition on the use of consumer drones in the conflict. (BBC News) (CNN) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Pacific hurricane season 
 Hurricane Hilary 
 A man dies after being swept by a current in Baja California Sur while attempting to cross a stream in his vehicle to evacuate the area. (La Prensa Latina Media) 
 2023 Canadian wildfires 
 35,000 people are ordered to evacuate in British Columbia due to wildfires, with another 30,000 people under evacuation alerts. (CBC News) 
 Nine members of the Indian Army are killed and another is seriously injured after their vehicle falls into a gorge near Leh , Ladakh , India . (Mirror Now via The Economic Times ) 
 The Greek Coast Guard rescues 60 migrants in inflatable dinghies who were attempting to cross from Turkey to the eastern Aegean Sea islands in two separate incidents. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Human rights in Japan 
 A government panel investigating harassment cases in the military and the defense ministry finds widespread cover-ups and reluctance among supervisors to address these cases. (AP) 
 Oupeye , Li ge Province , Belgium , bans gatherings of more than four people following riots . The riots spread to the neighboring commune of Herstal . A school and various homes were damaged and garbage can fires were reported. (7Sur7) (Le Soir) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Luna programme 
 Roscosmos spacecraft Luna 25 crashes into the moon after moving into an unpredictable orbit during the transition to a pre-landing orbit. (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup 
 Sweden defeats co-host Australia 2 0 in the third place play-off. Sweden defends its podium finish from the previous edition , while despite the loss, Australia records its best finish at the World Cup . (Fox Sports) 
 2023 Leagues Cup 
 Major League Soccer club Inter Miami CF wins the Leagues Cup , 10 9 , in a penalty shoot-out , making it their first title since joining the league in 2020. ( The Tennessean ) ( The Guardian ) 
 Month August 2023 Previous day August 18 Next day August 20 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_August_19&oldid=1173052610 "