
 
 
 September 22, 2022 ( 2022-09-22 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Russian mobilization 
 Large numbers of fighting-age men leave Russia after the announcement of the mobilization . Long traffic jams occur at international border crossings and the price of tickets for international flights sharply increases. (BBC News) 
 At least 1,300 protesters rallying against the mobilization are arrested throughout Russia. (BBC News) 
 Donetsk People's Republic authorities accuse Ukraine of shelling a market in Donetsk , killing six civilians . ( Times of Israel ) 
 Ukraine and Russia release 55 Russian prisoners of war and 215 fighters from the Siege of Mariupol as part of a prisoner exchange mediated by Turkey and Saudi Arabia . Among those released are pro-Russian Ukrainian politician Viktor Medvedchuk , Azov Regiment commander Denys Prokopenko , British volunteers Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner , and Moroccan volunteer Saadun Brahim . ( Times of Israel ) , (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least 71 people are killed when a boat carrying migrants from Lebanon capsizes off Syria 's coast. (Al Jazeera) 
 Two people are killed by a magnitude 6.9 earthquake in Mexico City . The earthquake was an aftershock of the magnitude 7.6 earthquake that occurred three days ago in Michoac n , Mexico . ( The Guardian ) 
 At least three people are killed by an explosion at an oil refinery in Neuqu n Province , Argentina . (AP) 
 Seven people are killed by landslides in El Salvador . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Mahsa Amini protests 
 Amid protests after the death of Mahsa Amini , Iran restricts access to several websites, including Instagram and WhatsApp . ( The Washington Post ) (Reuters) 
 Corruption in China 
 China 's former justice minister Fu Zhenghua is sentenced to death with reprieve , which means his sentence will be life in prison without the possibility of parole , after pleading guilty to accepting bribes . (DW) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 21 Next day September 23 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_22&oldid=1112540551 "