
 
 
 October 15, 2024 ( 2024-10-15 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 Governor of Kharkiv Oblast Oleh Syniehubov orders the mandatory evacuation of all civilians from Kupiansk and Borova in Kharkiv Oblast , Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 A police officer is killed and four others are injured in a mass shooting on Highway 4 near Ashdod , Israel . The gunman is killed by a passing armed civilian. (Al Jazeera) ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Models Alex Consani and Valentina Sampaio become the first transgender women to walk the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show . ( Hindustan Times ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The United States Department of Transportation fines the German airline Lufthansa $4 million for its mistreatment of Orthodox Jewish passengers during a flight from New York to Hungary through Germany in 2022. (AP) 
 Google signs an agreement with Kairos Power to use small nuclear reactors to generate the energy to power its artificial intelligence (AI) data centers . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A car driving in the wrong direction collides with another car on the M6 motorway in Cumbria , England , killing five people, including two children and seriously injuring another. (BBC News) (Sky News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Climate change and food security in Africa 
 The World Food Programme says that millions of people in southern African countries are facing a food crisis, with more than 21 million children currently malnourished . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Gaza war , Israel United States relations 
 The Biden administration sends a letter to the Israeli government , urging it to take action to improve the humanitarian crisis in Gaza within 30 days. (CNN) 
 Iran European Union relations 
 The European Union sanctions fourteen Iranian individuals and firms, including Iran Air and several high-ranking members of the Quds Force , for allegedly transferring missiles and drones to Moscow in order to help Russia in its invasion of Ukraine . (Al Jazeera) 
 North Korea South Korea relations 
 North Korea announces that it has destroyed portions of an unused road that linked North Korea with South Korea . (AP) 
 Philippines United Arab Emirates relations 
 Following a phone call with Emirati president Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed , Philippine president Bongbong Marcos confirms that 143 Filipinos in the United Arab Emirates have been pardoned by the Emirati government . (Philippine News Agency) 
 Law and crime 
 
 The Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network is designated as a terrorist group by the Canadian government and is sanctioned by the U.S. government, due to the group's alleged ties to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine . (CTV News) 
 Month October 2024 Previous day October 14 Next day October 16 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_October_15&oldid=1286023112 "