
 
 
 February 22, 2024 ( 2024-02-22 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Forty people are killed and 100 others are injured in Israeli airstrikes against residential buildings in Deir al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip . (Al Jazeera) 
 Middle Eastern crisis (2023 present) 
 Az-Za'ayyem checkpoint shooting 
 One Israeli is killed and 11 others are seriously injured in a shooting attack by three Palestinians near the Israeli settlement of Ma'ale Adumim in the occupied West Bank . Two gunmen are killed by Israeli soldiers , while a third is killed in a chase afterwards. ( The National News ) ( Times of Israel ) 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah clashes 
 A Hezbollah rocket strikes Yuval , northern Israel . (Times of Israel) 
 Two Hezbollah militants killed and three injured in Israeli drone strike on an apartment building in Kfar Remen . (Times of Israel) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 A Palau -flagged cargo ship en route to Egypt is set on fire after being hit by an anti-ship missile in the Gulf of Aden , according to the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations . No casualties are reported. (AP) 
 War in Sudan 
 The World Food Programme releases a report stating that more than 95% of Sudan 's population cannot afford a meal a day. ( Barron's ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Guangzhou bridge collapse 
 Five people are killed when a barge collides with the Lixinsha Bridge in Guangzhou , China . (Reuters) ( The New York Times ) 
 2024 Val ncia residential complex fire 
 Nine people are killed, 15 others are injured and one is missing during a fire at a 14-storey residential building in Valencia , Spain . (AP) 
 At least eight people are killed during floods and landslides in the Brazilian state of Rio de Janeiro . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Murder of Kathleen Jo Henry 
 An Alaskan jury finds Brian Smith guilty of the murder of Kathleen Jo Henry and Veronica Abouchuk. (ABC News) 
 A court in Panama orders the arrest of former president Ricardo Martinelli , who is under protection of the Nicaraguan embassy in Panama City . (ABC News) 
 A majority of citizens of Westlock voted to ban public display of pride flags. [ 1 ] 
 Science and technology 
 
 2024 AT&T outage 
 More than 71,000 customers of US mobile carrier AT&T experience network outages. Some Verizon and T-Mobile users also report outages. (CNN) (NBC News) 
 Intuitive Machines Nova-C lunar lander Odysseus successfully touches down on the Moon , near the lunar south pole , making it the first private company to successfully land a spacecraft on the surface of the Moon. (BBC News) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 21 Next day February 23 
 
 ^ "Canadian town narrowly votes to ban Pride flags" . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_22&oldid=1253347508 "