
 
 
 August 5, 2023 ( 2023-08-05 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Crimea attacks 
 Ukraine says that it damaged the Russian tanker Sig in a naval drone attack in the Black Sea near the Crimean Bridge . (BBC News) ( The Guardian ) 
 Peace negotiations in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Peace talks begin in Jeddah , Saudi Arabia . The talks will last for two days and are being attended by officials from around 40 countries, including those from the Global South , but not Russia. (Reuters) ( The New York Times ) 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russia hits a blood transfusion centre in Kupiansk , Kharkiv Oblast , killing two people and injuring four. (BBC News) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 A gunman opens fire on a street in Tel Aviv , Israel , killing a policeman, before being shot dead by another officer. (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least 17 people are killed and 18 others are missing in a landslide in Shovi , Georgia . (Radio Free Europe) 
 Floods and landslides occur in southern Austria , with water being pumped out of a dam in the Viktring district of Klagenfurt , Carinthia , after concerns are raised over its stability. (DW) (Atlas News) 
 International relations 
 
 China Philippines relations 
 Territorial disputes in the South China Sea 
 The Philippine Coast Guard accuses the China Coast Guard of firing water cannons at its vessels near the Second Thomas Shoal in the Spratly Islands where Filipino military personnel are stationed. (AFP via Malay Mail ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A court in Lahore , Pakistan , sentences former prime minister Imran Khan to three years in prison on corruption -related charges . (Al Jazeera) 
 An Eritrean festival in Toronto is delicensed hours after a clash with pro- government protestors hospitalizes nine people. (Global News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Aftermath of the 2023 Cambodian general election 
 The National Election Committee declares a landslide victory for Prime Minister Hun Sen 's Cambodian People's Party , which won 120 of the 125 seats in the parliament . The royalist FUNCINPEC party secured the remaining five seats. (AP) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Chandrayaan programme 
 India 's Chandrayaan-3 successfully enters the Moon's orbit ahead of the country's second attempted Moon landing between August 23 and 24. (AFP via France 24) 
 Sports 
 
 NASCAR announces that it has indefinitely suspended driver Noah Gragson after he liked a meme ridiculing the death of George Floyd . (NBC News) 
 Month August 2023 Previous day August 4 Next day August 6 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_August_5&oldid=1183744815 "