
 
 
 October 11, 2022 ( 2022-10-11 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Belarusian involvement in the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Thousands of Russian troops enter Belarus by the "trainload" as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warns G7 nations that Russia is planning on launching another offensive against Kyiv with direct Belarusian involvement. The troop movements come a day after Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko accused Ukraine of planning to launch an attack on the country. ( The Independent ) 
 Lviv experiences a major power outage after a Russian missile strike damages "critical infrastructure". (Reuters) 
 Russia adds Meta Platforms , the parent company of Instagram and Facebook , to its list of "terrorists and extremists" for tolerating Russophobia and allowing calls to violence against Russians. (Al Jazeera) 
 Ethnic violence in South Sudan 
 The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs says that renewed fighting between tribes has displaced more than 8,000 civilians in South Sudan . (Xinhua) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 An Israeli soldier is killed by two Lions' Den gunmen near the Israeli settlement of Shavei Shomron , in the occupied West Bank . (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Hurricane Julia 
 Fourteen people in Guatemala and ten in El Salvador are killed as Hurricane Julia causes torrential rain in both countries. (Associated Press via CBS News) 
 Ten people are killed and 4 others are injured after a fire broke out in Esigodini , Matabeleland South Province , Zimbabwe . (Xinhua via NewsGhana) 
 At least 32 people are injured after a carbon monoxide leak is discovered in a care home in Allentown , Pennsylvania , United States. (CNN) 
 International relations 
 
 Israeli Lebanese maritime border dispute 
 It is announced that Israel and Lebanon have agreed to a United States-brokered agreement that will allow both countries to exploit gas fields in the eastern Mediterranean Sea , thereby ending decades of maritime border disputes between the two nations. ( The Washington Post via MSN) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Los Angeles City Council controversy 
 A meeting of the Los Angeles City Council is disrupted by protesters calling for the resignations of council members after then-president Nury Martinez was heard on a leaked audio recording making racist remarks and denigrating colleagues. ( Los Angeles Times ) 
 2022 Lesotho general election 
 Revolution for Prosperity party leader Sam Matekane announces that his party has formed a majority coalition with the Alliance of Democrats and the Movement for Economic Change . (Reuters) 
 Same-sex marriage in Mexico 
 The Federal State of Mexico legalizes same-sex marriage . (Associated Press) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Double Asteroid Redirection Test 
 NASA says that its DART spacecraft has successfully altered the orbit of the 520 feet (160 m) asteroid Dimorphos by around 32 minutes in a demonstration of asteroid impact avoidance . (BBC News) (Associated Press via CBC) 
 Month October 2022 Previous day October 10 Next day October 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_October_11&oldid=1146846572 "