
 
 
 February 12, 2025 ( 2025-02-12 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Kyiv strikes 
 Russian forces launch an overnight ballistic missile attack on Kyiv , Ukraine, killing one person and injuring four others. (Reuters) 
 United States and the Russian invasion of Ukraine , Peace negotiations in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 After holding a telephone call with Russian president Vladimir Putin , U.S. president Donald Trump says negotiations to end the war will start immediately. (CNN) (Euronews) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Darfur campaign 
 The Rapid Support Forces storm the Zamzam Refugee Camp in North Darfur , Sudan , the country's largest displacement camp . The situation inside the camp, which holds around 500,000 people, is described as "catastrophic", with an unknown number of casualties. (BBC News) 
 Students People's uprising 
 United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker T rk reports that over 1,400 people were killed last year during violent crackdowns on protests against the government of former Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina by the military and police , with over 78% of the casualties having been shot . (DW) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Hamburg train accident 
 The casualty total from yesterday's collision between an Intercity Express train and a semi-trailer truck in Hamburg , Germany , increases to one person killed and 25 injured. (EuroWeekly) 
 A fishing trawler capsizes off South Korea 's Jeju Island , with five crew members reported missing. Five others are rescued by the Korea Coast Guard . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Russia Sudan relations 
 Sudanese foreign minister Ali Yousif Sharif reports that an agreement has been reached for the creation of a Russian naval base in Sudan. (Al Arabiya) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Foreign relations of the United States 
 Belarus United States relations 
 U.S. White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt announces that Belarus has released three detainees, including an American citizen . (Al Arabiya) 
 Russia United States relations 
 The Trump administration agree to send convicted money launderer Alexander Vinnik back to Russia in exchange for the release of American teacher Marc Fogel , who was serving a 14-year sentence for entering the country with 17 grams of medical cannabis . (Reuters) (NBC News) 
 2025 Grenoble attack 
 A man throws a grenade into a bar in Grenoble , France, injuring 15 people, some of whom are in critical condition. (Times Now) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 Greek presidential election 
 Konstantinos Tasoulas is elected President of Greece by the Hellenic Parliament in the fourth and final round of the presidential election. ( Ekathimerini ) 
 Senate's President Ilie Bolojan becomes acting President of Romania following Klaus Iohannis ' resignation on 10 February. (Reuters) 
 Science and Technology 
 
 Neutrino detection 
 Researchers at the KM3NeT collaboration, published their results on the highest energy neutrino ever detected. The infrastructure, located at the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea , recorded an event 30 times more energetic than the previous record holder. (Nature) , (AP) 
 Month February 2025 Previous day February 11 Next day February 13 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_February_12&oldid=1276219178 "