
 
 
 August 27, 2022 ( 2022-08-27 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Libyan crisis , aftermath of the Second Libyan Civil War 
 2022 Tripoli clashes 
 Fighting breaks out between two militias in Tripoli , Libya . At least 23 people are killed and over 140 others are injured. (Associated Press) (Reuters) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 Six people are killed and two others are injured when militants attack a gold mine in Boungou , Bilanga Department , Gnagna Province , Burkina Faso . (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Hungary Russia relations , Nuclear power in Hungary 
 Minister of Foreign Affairs P ter Szijj rt announces Russian nuclear energy provider Rosatom will begin construction of two new nuclear reactors to expand the Paks Nuclear Power Plant . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Six people are killed and seven others are injured after a truck crashes into a community barbecue in Nieuw-Beijerland , South Holland , The Netherlands . (Associated Press) 
 International relations 
 
 Kosovo Serbia relations 
 Kosovan prime minister Albin Kurti and Serbian president Aleksandar Vu i agree on a freedom of movement arrangement between Kosovo and Serbia . ( The Manila Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Indictment and arrest of Julian Assange , Censorship in the United States 
 Lawyers for WikiLeaks publisher Julian Assange file an appeal against his extradition to the U.S., after UK Home Secretary Priti Patel approved his extradition from the United Kingdom . ( The Guardian ) 
 UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet meets with Assange s lawyers and his wife in Geneva , Switzerland . ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Hunter Biden laptop controversy , Censorship in the United States 
 In an interview on The Joe Rogan Experience , Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg reveals that Facebook restricted posts about the Hunter Biden laptop controversy during the 2020 United States presidential election after receiving misinformation warnings from the Federal Bureau of Investigation . (BBC News) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 23 Premier League 
 English football club Liverpool defeats Bournemouth 9 0 at Anfield , Liverpool , to equal the joint-largest winning margin in Premier League history. (BBC Sport) 
 Month August 2022 Previous day August 26 Next day August 28 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_August_27&oldid=1217521634 "