
 
 
 April 24, 2024 ( 2024-04-24 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 The United States announces a $ 61 billion aid package for Ukraine as part of a bill that was recently approved after being stalled in the US Congress for months. The package includes ammunition for artillery and air defense systems , along with armoured fighting vehicles . (CNN) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The union representing air traffic controllers in France cancels a planned 24-hour strike on Thursday, although a majority of flights have already been cancelled. (Euronews) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Kenya floods 
 Widespread flooding occurs in Nairobi , Kenya , with tens of thousands of people affected. (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 National Security Act, 2024 
 Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act 
 US President Joe Biden signs the PAFACA Act into law. The act could result in video sharing platform TikTok being sold or banned in the United States . (Reuters) 
 AMIA bombing 
 Argentina issues an arrest warrant via Interpol for Iranian interior minister Ahmad Vahidi in connection with the 1994 bombing of a Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires . Vahidi is currently believed to be in Sri Lanka . (BBC News) 
 Human rights in Colombia 
 The Government of Colombia issues a formal apology to the indigenous communities of the Amazon basin for their enslavement and mistreatment during the Amazon rubber boom in the 19th and 20th centuries. ( El Espectador ) 
 Iranian rapper Toomaj Salehi is sentenced to death for supporting the 2022 protests . (BBC News) 
 Moldova announces that it has brought a criminal case against Gagauzia governor Evghenia Gu ul for using Russian funds to finance the now-banned or Party . (Reuters) 
 Three people are injured in a stabbing at the Ysgol Dyffryn Aman school in Ammanford , Wales . The suspect is arrested. (ITV News) ( The Guardian ) 
 Russian Deputy Defense Minister Timur Ivanov is arrested on suspicion of bribery. (CNN) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 North Macedonian presidential election 
 The centre-right opposition candidate, Gordana Siljanovska-Davkova , wins the first round of the presidential election and will face incumbent president Stevo Pendarovski in the second round on 8 May. (Politico) 
 Thousands of people protest in Buenos Aires , Argentina , against reductions in funding for universities made by President Javier Milei . (BBC News) 
 Spanish Prime Minister Pedro S nchez says that he is considering resigning from office after the launch of a judicial investigation into his wife after accusations by a right-wing legal platform. (AP) 
 Month April 2024 Previous day April 23 Next day April 25 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_April_24&oldid=1285524902 "