
 
 
 March 28, 2025 ( 2025-03-28 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 2024 Israel Lebanon ceasefire agreement 
 The Israel Defense Forces strikes southern Beirut , Lebanon , for the first time since November 2024, violating the ceasefire agreement. (CNN) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Dnipro strikes 
 A Russian drone attack on Dnipro , Ukraine , kills four people and wounds 19 others. Multiple buildings in the city are reported to be ablaze, including a hotel, resort , a restaurant complex and numerous apartments. (Reuters) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 March 2025 United States attacks in Yemen 
 At least seven people are injured by U.S. military airstrikes in the Yemeni capital city Sanaa . (Euronews) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Myanmar earthquake 
 2025 Bangkok skyscraper collapse 
 An under-construction government office skyscraper collapses in Bangkok, Thailand, killing at least six people and leaving more than 101 others missing and trapped under the rubble. (CTV News) 
 A 7.7 magnitude earthquake strikes Sagaing , Myanmar , with significant damages reported as far away as Bangkok , Thailand . Over 1,000 people are killed in Myanmar and ten more in Thailand. A state of emergency is declared by the Myanmar government . (CNN Live) (NBC News) 
 The Ava Bridge in Mandalay Region , Myanmar, partially collapses as a result of the earthquake . (News18) 
 2025 Red Sea tourist submarine disaster 
 Russian authorities say that yesterday's sinking of the Sindbad submarine in Hurghada , Egypt , killing six Russians, happened during boarding and not due to a collision as reported. ( The National ) 
 International relations 
 
 Proposed United States acquisition of Greenland 
 U.S. Vice President JD Vance and several other senior Trump administration officials visit the Pituffik Space Base , a United States Space Force facility in Greenland . (NPR) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Arrest of Ekrem mamo lu 
 Turkish authorities detain Mehmet Pehlivan, a lawyer representing opposition leader Ekrem mamo lu in the ongoing investigation, and later release him. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 Nepalese pro-monarchy protests 
 Supporters of former King of Nepal Gyanendra clash with riot police in Kathmandu , Nepal , leaving two people dead and several others injured. (AP) 
 Month March 2025 Previous day March 27 Next day March 29 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_March_28&oldid=1284037423 "