
 
 
 April 13, 2024 ( 2024-04-13 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Iran Israel proxy conflict 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Iranian strikes in Israel 
 Iran and its proxies launch between 400 and 500 drones and cruise missiles at Israel from Iran, Iraq , Syria , southern Lebanon , and Yemen . (ABC News) 
 U.S. naval ships mobilize to the Middle East to protect Israel against incoming missiles . ( The Wall Street Journal ) (News.com.au) 
 Iranian seizure of the MSC Aries 
 Iran seizes the MSC Aries , a Portuguese-registered , Madeira-flagged container ship owned by Zodiac Maritime which is chaired by Israeli billionaire Eyal Ofer . (Reuters) (Firstpost) 
 Israeli bombing of the Iranian embassy in Damascus 
 The Netherlands announces that their embassy in Tehran will close on Sunday. (Al Arabiya) 
 Killing of Benjamin Achimeir 
 Israeli settlers attack Palestinians in the West Bank after missing Jewish teenager Benjamin Achimeir is found dead. (BBC News) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 Gunmen abduct and kill nine people from a bus in Nushki District , Balochistan , Pakistan . All victims, whose bodies were found under a bridge, appear to have been shot at close range. (Reuters) 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 The Russian Ministry of Defense claims that the village of Pervomaiske near Donetsk has been captured by Russian troops . ( Barron's ) 
 War in Sudan 
 An offensive by the Rapid Support Forces begins in El Fasher . (Sudan Tribune) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Eighteen people are killed, two are injured and some are missing after landslides hit South Sulawesi , Indonesia . (The Star) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Bondi Junction stabbings 
 Six people are killed and seven others are injured in a mass stabbing at a shopping center in Sydney , Australia . The perpetrator is shot and killed by police. ( The Guardian ) ( The Sydney Morning Herald ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Cook by-election 
 Simon Kennedy of the Liberal Party of Australia wins the by-election in the seat of Cook , succeeding former Prime Minister Scott Morrison . (ABC News Australia) 
 Month April 2024 Previous day April 12 Next day April 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_April_13&oldid=1249080923 "