
 
 
 April 29, 2023 ( 2023-04-29 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 War in Sudan (2023) 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Warplanes bomb Khartoum and heavy anti-aircraft artillery is heard in the city as the conflict enters its third week, with the United Nations warning that Sudan is "collapsing". (AFP via Manila Bulletin ) 
 A Turkish evacuation plane is fired at in Khartoum, allegedly by the Rapid Support Forces . No injuries or deaths have been confirmed. (BBC News) 
 The former Prime Minister of Sudan , Abdalla Hamdok , calls the conflict in his country a "nightmare", stating that it could become worse than those in Syria and Libya . (BBC News) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Israel's role in the Syrian civil war 
 The Israeli Air Force launches airstrikes against targets near the Syrian city of Homs in a pre-dawn raid. Syrian state media reports that three civilians were injured in the attacks. (Times of Israel) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 A huge fire engulfs a fuel depot in the port of Sevastopol , in Russian-occupied Crimea , in what governor Mikhail Razvozhaev says was a drone attack . (Al Jazeera) 
 Laotian human rights activist Anousa Luangsuphom is shot at a coffeehouse in the capital Vientiane . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Nayarit bus crash 
 At least 18 people are killed and 33 others are injured after a bus plunges into a ravine in Nayarit , Mexico . (Reuters) 
 Thirty-four people are injured in a roof collapse near the Ohio State University in Columbus , Ohio , United States . (BNO News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Senegal confirms a case of the Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Niuean general election 
 Citizens of Niue head to the polls to elect the 20 members of the Assembly . (RNZ) 
 Sports 
 
 The final day of the 2023 NFL Draft is held in Kansas City, Missouri , United States , with Toledo defensive tackle Desjuan Johnson selected as " Mr. Irrelevant ". (CBS Sports) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 28 Next day April 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_29&oldid=1185561233 "