
 
 
 June 5, 2024 ( 2024-06-05 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Wad Al-Noora massacre 
 The Rapid Support Forces storm the village of Wad Al-Noora in Gezira State , Sudan , and massacre nearly 100 villagers. (Sudan Tribune) 
 2021 2024 Democratic Republic of the Congo attacks 
 At least 16 people are killed in Beni, Democratic Republic of the Congo . The local government believes the Allied Democratic Forces are responsible. (Reuters) 
 2024 Beirut US embassy shooting 
 A Syrian man fires several shots at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut , Lebanon , and is shot by security forces. (Reuters) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Hezbollah strikes an Iron Dome battery in Ramot Naftali , Israel . (Reuters) 
 Korean conflict 
 The United States and South Korea participate in the first precision guided bombing drill in 7 years over the Korean Peninsula , as tensions rise after North Korea sends trash-filled balloons into South Korea. (CNN) (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Pardubice train collision 
 Four Slovaks and Ukrainians are killed and more than 20 others are injured when a passenger train collides with a freight train in Pardubice , Czech Republic . (CNN) (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 A panel of the United States Food and Drug Administration rejects MDMA-assisted psychotherapy as a treatment for PTSD . (NPR) 
 International relations 
 
 Burkina Faso Russia relations 
 Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov announces that Russia will send additional military supplies and instructors to Burkina Faso to help the country increase its defense capabilities. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Mexico United States border crisis 
 US President Joe Biden institutes a broad asylum ban on migrants illegally crossing the Mexico United States border , with actions to deport or turn people back to Mexico , with exceptions for unaccompanied children, people with serious medical or safety threats, and victims of trafficking . (Reuters) 
 A court in Florence , Italy , convicts American journalist Amanda Knox and sentences her to a three-year imprisonment over her accusations related to the murder of Meredith Kercher in Perugia in 2007. The sentence will count as time already served. (NBC News) (NPR) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Israel Hamas war protests in Israel 
 Thousands of Israeli ultranationalists march through East Jerusalem on Jerusalem Day , with some chanting anti-Arab slogans. (AP) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Boeing 's Starliner capsule launches its first astronaut-crewed flight into space to the International Space Station after several delays at the Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida , United States . (ABC News) 
 Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko becomes the first human to spend 1,000 days in outer space. (AP) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 4 Next day June 6 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_5&oldid=1227817103 "