
 
 
 September 21, 2022 ( 2022-09-21 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Russian mobilization 
 In a major address to the nation, Russian president Vladimir Putin announces a partial mobilization , with the exceptions of students and conscripts . (AP) 
 Lithuania places its rapid reaction force on high alert in response to Russia's mobilization, according to Defence Minister Arvydas Anu auskas . (LRT) 
 NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg says that Russia's military mobilization is "dangerous and reckless", and condemns Putin's use of "nuclear rhetoric". (NTV) (Reuters) 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 Three people are killed and 13 others are injured in an explosion at a restaurant in Deh Mazang , Kabul , Afghanistan . (AP) 
 Herder farmer conflicts in Nigeria 
 Fulani herdsmen shoot and kill 14 civilians in Logo , Benue State , Nigeria . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Hurricane Fiona reaches Category 4 as it moves from the Turks and Caicos Islands toward Bermuda . (CNN) 
 Two people are killed and 5 others are injured after a helicopter crashes while travelling to a wildfire in Marmaris , Mu la Province , Turkey . (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Denmark 
 Queen Margrethe II tests positive for COVID-19 for the second time. ( The Guardian ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Two Ukrainian staffers of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe are sentenced to 13 years of prison by a court in the separatist Luhansk People's Republic for "alleged high treason and espionage for the United States". (Politico) 
 Letitia James , the New York Attorney General , files a civil lawsuit in state court against Donald Trump , his three children as well as companies in The Trump Organization . The lawsuit alleges that Donald Trump committed fraud by artificially inflating his net worth in order to gain prestige and thus increase his property's value. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Protests against the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 anti-war protests in Russia 
 Anti-mobilization and anti-war protests occur across Russia, with many arrests also occurring. (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 World Taekwondo denies giving bribes in order to become an Olympic sport after allegations emerge from a former employee turned whistleblower . ( The Guardian ) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 20 Next day September 22 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_21&oldid=1177184670 "