
 
 
 June 14, 2023 ( 2023-06-14 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 At least three people are killed and 13 others are injured in a rocket attack on a residential area in Odesa , Ukraine . (Al Jazeera) 
 Adam Delimkhanov , a Russian- Chechen member of the State Duma , is reportedly injured in Ukraine. (BBC News) 
 2022 2023 North Kosovo crisis 
 Kosovo Serbia relations 
 Serbian forces detain three Kosovo Police officers, accusing them of illegally crossing the border. Kosovan Prime Minister Albin Kurti denies the Serbian claims, saying that the officers were arrested 300 metres inside Kosovan territory, and demands their immediate release. (U.S. News and World Report) 
 Syrian civil war 
 2023 Northern Syria clashes 
 Ten SDF fighters and five Syrian soldiers are killed by Turkish drone strikes in Aleppo Governorate , Syria . (SOHR) 
 2023 Sudan conflict 
 Killing of Khamis Abakar 
 The state governor of West Darfur , Khamis Abakar, is killed in Geneina after being abducted by armed men shortly after accusing the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) of committing genocide in the state. The RSF denies killing Abakar, blaming "outlaws" for his death. (BBC News) 
 2023 Manipur violence 
 Nine people are killed in ethnic clashes in Manipur , India . (Al Jazeera) 
 Moro conflict 
 Two Islamic State operatives, including Abu Zacharia, a leader of Abu Sayyaf , are killed in separate operations by joint security forces in Marawi , Philippines . (CNN Philippines) (ABS-CBN News) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The European Commission orders Google to sell off portions of its advertising services in order to comply with anti-competitive practices and threatens to fine the company up to 10% of its global turnover. Google, which relies on advertising services for up to 79% of its revenue, says that it will appeal the order. (Reuters) 
 Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland announces that Canada is suspending its relations with the China -based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank while her department conducts an investigation into allegations of the Chinese Communist Party 's influence over the organization. (CNA) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Messenia migrant boat disaster 
 At least 78 people die and 100 others are rescued after a boat carrying refugees and migrants from Libya to Italy capsizes near Pylos , Messenia , Greece . (Al Jazeera) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia 
 Indonesian President Joko Widodo announces that the country will end their COVID-19 emergency within the next two weeks and transition into endemic status. (Antara) ( The Jakarta Post ) 
 International relations 
 
 Fiji New Zealand relations 
 Fiji and New Zealand sign a defence pact in Suva , Fiji, which includes military cooperation and humanitarian aid . ( The Guardian ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Japan military facility shooting 
 Two soldiers are killed and another is injured during a live fire exercise at a training area in Gifu , Japan , as a recruit opens fire at them. The suspect is apprehended and charged with the attempted murder of a soldier. (AFP via SCMP ) (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 United States presidential election 
 2024 Republican Party presidential primaries 
 Mayor of Miami , Florida , Francis Suarez files for candidacy as a Republican in the 2024 United States presidential election . ( The New York Times ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 At the International Society for Stem Cell Research 's annual meeting in Boston , Massachusetts , United States, developmental biologist Magdalena ernicka-Goetz reveals that American and British researchers have generated the world's first synthetic human embryo -like structures using stem cells . ernicka-Goetz suggests that the findings could provide insights into the causes of miscarriages . (CNN) 
 Astronomers report that the presence of phosphates on Enceladus , moon of the planet Saturn , has been detected, completing the discovery of all the basic chemical ingredients for life on the moon. (New York Times) 
 Month June 2023 Previous day June 13 Next day June 15 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_June_14&oldid=1250204724 "