
 
 
 October 3, 2022 ( 2022-10-03 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Ukrainian southern counteroffensive 
 Ukrainian forces advance more than 20 kilometres (12 mi) along the Dnieper towards Dudchany , Kherson Oblast , in what is being called a "major breakthrough". (Reuters) 
 The Russian Defence Ministry dismisses Colonel General Alexander Zhuravlyov in response to a series of military defeats in Ukraine . He is replaced as commander of the Western Military District by Major General Roman Berdnikov . (Reuters) 
 Somali Civil War 
 October 2022 Beledweyne bombings 
 Twenty people are killed and 36 others are injured by two al-Shabaab suicide bombers when fifty-six gunmen and drug gangs open fire in a mass shooting at the local government headquarters in Beledweyne . The health minister of Hirshabelle and Hiran 's deputy governor for finance and security are among the dead. (AP) (Shabelle Media Network) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Two Palestinians are killed and another is wounded as Israeli soldiers open fire against a vehicle in the Jalazone refugee camp , Ramallah and al-Bireh Governorate , in the occupied West Bank . (Al Jazeera) 
 2021 2022 North Korean missile tests 
 North Korea launches a suspected ballistic missile towards Japan with the Japanese government warning residents in Hokkaido and Aomori prefectures to immediately seek shelter. It later landed in the Pacific . The launch comes after a series of balloon launches and placard protests from South Korea and various military exercises involving the US. (Bloomberg) (WNYT-TV) (BBC News) 
 Ten people are injured when a homemade explosive device explodes in Butembo , North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 American wiki hosting service Fandom purchases numerous entertainment and review sites, such as TV Guide , Metacritic , and GameSpot , for US$ 50 million. ( Variety ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Atlantic hurricane season 
 The U.S. death toll from Hurricane Ian increases to 87, with around 10,000 people remaining unaccounted for. (NBC News) ( The Guardian ) 
 2022 Pacific hurricane season 
 Hurricane Orlene makes landfall in the Mexican state of Sinaloa as a Category 1 hurricane . (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 North Korea restricts movement due to COVID-19. The announcement was made minutes after it launched a missile over Japan. (RFA) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2022 Ecuador prison riots 
 Fifteen people are killed and 21 others injured when a prison riot open fire in a mass shooting in Latacunga , Cotopaxi Province , Ecuador . (Reuters) 
 Agriculture in Kenya 
 The Cabinet of Kenya votes to overturn a law prohibiting the open cultivation of genetically modified crops , and William Ruto officially authorizes the use of genetically modified maize . (AP) 
 Science and technology 
 
 2022 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 
 Swedish geneticist Svante P bo is awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine for "his discoveries concerning the genomes of extinct hominins and human evolution". ( The Washington Post ) 
 Month October 2022 Previous day October 2 Next day October 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_October_3&oldid=1115334119 "