
 
 
 January 27, 2025 ( 2025-01-27 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Colombian conflict 
 Catatumbo campaign 
 2025 Catatumbo clashes 
 Local authorities of Teorama , Norte de Santander , Colombia , find the bodies of thirteen FARC combatants. ( El Espectador ) 
 Kivu conflict , Democratic Republic of the Congo Rwanda tensions 
 M23 offensive 
 Battle of Goma 
 M23 rebels claim to have captured the city of Goma in North Kivu Province , Democratic Republic of the Congo . The government says its troops still hold the Goma International Airport and other key locations, and that Rwandan army soldiers are present in Goma. Congolese and Rwandan forces exchange fire along the border . (Al Jazeera) (BBC) (DW) 
 Business and economy 
 
 A global technology stocks selloff on the Nasdaq Stock Market , prompted by the release of the Chinese DeepSeek -R1 model, leads to record losses in the market capitalizations of AI and computer hardware companies . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 China India relations 
 Following the meeting between Indian Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Beijing , China and India agree to resume direct air travel between the two countries after a five-year hiatus. (CNA) . 
 Law and crime 
 
 Interpol Terrorism Watch List 
 A joint INTERPOL and AFRIPOL operation including eight East African nations leads to the arrest of 37 people and the seizure of small and heavy weapons in Kenya , Democratic Republic of the Congo , Somalia , and Tanzania . (INTERPOL) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Second presidency of Donald Trump 
 Executive Order 14186 , Executive Order 14183 
 President Trump signs an executive order eliminating "gender radicalism in the military", targeting transgender personnel in the military , and another executive order that mandates a process to develop an American Iron Dome . (France 24) 
 Second cabinet of Donald Trump 
 The United States Senate votes to confirm Scott Bessent as U.S. Treasury Secretary , making him the highest rank LGBTQ official to run the U.S. Treasury and the highest-ranking LGBTQ person in the United States. (TIME) 
 United States Office of Management and Budget acting director Matthew Vaeth orders federal government agencies to temporarily pause all federal financial assistance programs, with the exception of Medicare and Social Security , that could be implicated by select executive orders from President Donald Trump . (Politico) 
 Month January 2025 Previous day January 26 Next day January 28 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_January_27&oldid=1285410037 "