
 
 
 February 21, 2024 ( 2024-02-21 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Iraqi conflict 
 Reports emerge that clashes between rival Shia militias, primarily Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq and Saraya al-Salam , have killed at least 200 fighters across Iraq in the past two months. ( The Medialine ) 
 Syrian civil war , 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah clashes 
 A Hezbollah missile fired at Shlomi, Israel . (Times of Israel) 
 Two civilians killed in Damascus of an Israeli airstrike at a Syrian security forces compound. (Reuters) 
 Two civilians killed in Israeli airstrikes on Majdal Zoun with further airstrikes on Hezbollah outposts in Ramyeh , Khaim , Zibqin and with shelling of Aitaroun . (Times of Israel) (Arab News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Lochem bridge collapse 
 A bridge under construction in Lochem , the Netherlands, collapses, killing two workers and injuring two others. (AP) 
 2024 Sumedang tornado 
 At least 33 people are injured after a tornado strikes Rancaekek , West Java , Indonesia . (Reuters) 
 Fourteen people are killed and eleven more injured during the collapse of an illegal gold mine in Angostura , Venezuela . (AP) 
 Fifteen people are killed and two survive when a truck falls off a cliff in Mabinay, Negros Oriental , Philippines . (AFP via Hindustan Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Espionage in the United States 
 United States Navy chief petty officer Bryce Pedicini, assigned to the USS Higgins , is charged with four counts of espionage . (BBC News) 
 Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko calls for armed security patrols on streets and in workplaces, claiming the possibility of "extremist" crimes. (Reuters) 
 The Supreme Court of the U.S. state of Alabama rules that frozen embryos in test tubes are legally considered children . ( The New York Times ) (BBC News) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 20 Next day February 22 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_21&oldid=1239535703 "