
 
 
 March 1, 2023 ( 2023-03-01 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Two people are killed when a boat carrying around 30 migrants capsizes near the coast of Kos , Greece . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Havana syndrome 
 A two-year investigation by seven U.S. intelligence agencies concludes it is "very unlikely" that Russia or another country was responsible for the " Havana syndrome " that affected U.S. diplomats and spies. Instead, "medical, environmental and social factors can explain" many symptoms. (AP) (Reuters) 
 Enlargement of NATO 
 Finland NATO relations 
 The Finnish Parliament votes 184 7 to formally approve the country's accession to NATO , and to adopt the military alliance 's founding documents. Hungary and Turkey have yet to approve Finland 's membership. (Euractiv) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Disappearance of Constance Marten and Mark Gordon 
 Constance Marten and Mark Gordon's baby's remains are found hidden in a shed two days after the couple were found and arrested. The couple are charged with gross negligence manslaughter. It is believed the baby was dead for some time before it was found. (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Tempi train crash 
 Greek Transport Minister Kostas Karamanlis resigns in response to last night's train wreck in Tempi that killed more than 50 people. (ABC News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Thousands of users of Twitter worldwide report issues on using the social media platform including the inability to view new posts on their main timelines. (BBC News) 
 Romanian Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuc unveils an AI -run "honorary advisor" named Ion, which will synthesize submissions by Romanians relating to their "opinions and desires". Ciuc says that this makes Romania the first country in the world to have an AI government advisor. (Politico.eu) 
 Month March 2023 Previous day February 28 Next day March 2 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_March_1&oldid=1142829735 "