
 
 
 April 22, 2024 ( 2024-04-22 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 The Russian Ministry of Defence claims control over the village of Novomykhailivka in Donetsk Oblast . (Reuters) 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 The United Kingdom announces its largest ever military support package for the Ukrainian military , pledging 400 vehicles, including 162 MXT-MVs , 60 boats, 1,600 air defence missiles, 4 million rounds of firearm ammunition, and an additional 500 million in funding. ( The Guardian ) 
 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russia strikes the Kharkiv TV Tower with a Kh-59 cruise missile , causing the upper half of the tower to collapse and disrupting the broadcasting signal in Kharkiv , Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Siege of Khan Yunis 
 Israeli troops and tanks raid Khan Yunis in Gaza after abruptly withdrawing from the city earlier this month. (Reuters) 
 Islamic State insurgency in the North Caucasus 
 Two police officers are killed and another is injured during a mass shooting of a police squad in Karachay-Cherkessia , Russia . (Tass) 
 Moro conflict 
 Twelve Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters militants are killed and seven soldiers are wounded during a shootout in Datu Saudi Ampatuan , Maguindanao del Sur , Philippines . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Guangdong floods 
 Four people are killed and ten are missing during floods caused by heavy rain in Guangdong Province , China . Around 110,000 people are evacuated . (BBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 China Japan relations 
 Controversies surrounding Yasukuni Shrine 
 China objects to an offering that Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida made at Tokyo 's Yasukuni Shrine on Sunday. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 2023 Hamas-led attack on Israel 
 The head of the Military Intelligence Directorate of Israel Aharon Haliva resigns for failing to prevent the Hamas offensive on Israel on October 7, 2023. (AP) 
 2024 Maldivian parliamentary election 
 President Mohamed Muizzu 's party, the People's National Congress , is declared the winner of the election. (Reuters) 
 2024 Basilicata regional election 
 Vito Bardi is re-elected president of the Italian region of Basilicata . (RAI News) 
 Law and Crime 
 
 A familicide of the Candy family in Yukon, Oklahoma , United States kills five people including the perpetrator, 42-year-old Jonathon David Candy. (Koco News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 NASA announces that it has received decipherable data from the Voyager 1 space probe for the first time in five months. (CNN) 
 Month April 2024 Previous day April 21 Next day April 23 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_April_22&oldid=1275768534 "