
 
 
 February 20, 2025 ( 2025-02-20 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kivu conflict 
 M23 campaign 
 2025 Uvira offensive 
 At least 22 people are killed when a boat carrying people attempting to escape Rwanda -backed M23 rebels in the Democratic Republic of the Congo across Lake Edward towards Uganda capsizes. Eight survivors are found by the local civil society . (AP) 
 The Congolese Army abandons their positions in Lubero , North Kivu , with reports that the deserting soldiers have looted a market and shops in town. The military has ordered the deserters to return to their posts within 12 hours or face criminal action. (Reuters) 
 War against the Islamic State 
 Islamic State insurgency in Puntland 
 Puntland counter-terrorism operations 
 Puntland security forces , with air support from the United Arab Emirates , launch a major offensive in the Cal Miskaad mountains, allegedly killing at least 44 IS Somalia militants and seizing control of the areas of Dhasaq, Qurac, and Damdamle, in Bari Region , Puntland , Somalia . (Garowe Online) (Hiiraan Online) 
 Colombian conflict 
 2025 Catatumbo clashes 
 Four bombings and shooting attacks take place across different police facilities and toll areas in C cuta , Norte de Santander Department , Colombia , leaving one police officer injured. Authorities in Norte de Santander and C cuta declare a curfew across the city for the following day. (CNN Colombia) 
 Gaza war 
 2025 Gaza war ceasefire , Gaza war hostage crisis 
 Hamas releases the bodies of Shiri Bibas, Ariel Bibas, Kfir Bibas , and Oded Lifshitz , who were all kidnapped from their homes in Nir Oz kibbutz, Israel , on October 7, 2023 . ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Somali Civil War 
 2025 Shabelle attacks 
 Al-Shabaab launches a coordinated attack on four Somali military bases in Middle Shabelle , Somalia , killing and wounding dozens of soldiers . Somali authorities say they repelled the attack, killing at least 130 militant fighters. (Mepa News) (Garowe Online) 
 2025 Bat Yam bus bombings 
 Three empty buses explode in what is suspected as an attempted terrorist attack in Bat Yam , Israel . Devices planted on two other buses failed to detonate, according to police . No casualties are reported. (BBC News) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2025 United States federal mass layoffs 
 The United States Internal Revenue Service announces it will layoff over 6,000 jobs this week as part of department downsizing led by Elon Musk 's Department of Government Efficiency . (NPR) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 ATL Technologies CEO Bradford Brown is killed and one person is injured when a Bell 505 Jet Ranger X helicopter crashes into ice at the Ririe Reservoir near Ririe , Idaho . United States. (ABC News) (AP News) 
 Seven people are injured in a gas explosion at The Whaler resort in Kaanapali , Hawaii , United States. (AP News) 
 International relations 
 
 French military withdrawal from West Africa 
 The French military hands over control of their last military base in Ivory Coast to the country's military . French armed forces minister S bastien Lecornu says that 80 French servicemembers will remain in the country to advise and train the Ivorian army. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Two women are killed in a stabbing attack at a shopping center in Hradec Kr lov , Czech Republic . A 16-year-old boy is arrested. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Indonesian local elections 
 Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto inaugurates 961 regional heads, including governors, regents, and mayors, at the State Palace . (Tempo) 
 Science and technology 
 
 The identity of Cleo is revealed to be Vladimir Reshetnikov, an Uzbek software developer, after a decade of mystery. (Meduza) 
 Sports 
 
 2025 4 Nations Face-Off 
 Amidst heightened tensions between the two nations, the Canadian men's ice hockey team defeats the United States team 3 2 in overtime in the final of the 4 Nations Face-Off , with Connor McDavid scoring the winning goal. (BBC) (NPR) 
 Month February 2025 Previous day February 19 Next day February 21 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_February_20&oldid=1278770944 "