
 
 
 August 30, 2022 ( 2022-08-30 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Iraqi political crisis 
 2022 Baghdad clashes 
 The death toll from the clashes in Baghdad between Iraqi Shia cleric Muqtada al-Sadr 's supporters and security forces increases to 23, with all of those killed being supporters of Sadr. 380 others are injured. (BBC News) 
 Iran captures an American unmanned ship before releasing it. ( The Washington Post ) 
 Allied Democratic Forces insurgency 
 Allied Democratic Forces militants kill at least 40 people in a series of raids on several villages in North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo . At least 76 others are kidnapped by the group. (Reuters) 
 Cross-Strait relations 
 The Taiwanese military fire warning shots at a Chinese drone flying over islands in the Kinmen region. ( Taiwan News ) 
 Moro conflict 
 A police chief is killed by suspected members of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters in Maguindanao , the Philippines . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Sixteen people are killed and eight others are injured in a traffic collision between a truck and a minibus in Khuzestan province , Iran . (Xinhua News Agency) 
 A South African Police Service plane crashes at Rand Airport in Johannesburg , killing all five passengers and critically injuring the pilot. ( Independent Online ) (SABC News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in mainland China 
 China announces new lockdowns in several cities following a series of COVID-19 outbreaks across the country. (CBS News) 
 International relations 
 
 Solomon Islands United States relations 
 The United States Embassy in Canberra says that the government of Solomon Islands will place a moratorium on US Navy ships entering its ports amid deteriorating relations between the two countries. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Papua conflict 
 Six Indonesian soldiers are arrested for killing four indigenous Papuan people and mutilating their bodies in Timika eight days ago. (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Portugal 's health minister Marta Temido resigns after emergency services closures. (Reuters) 
 Month August 2022 Previous day August 29 Next day August 31 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_August_30&oldid=1111707157 "