
 
 
 June 3, 2023 ( 2023-06-03 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian forces strike a residential area in Dnipro Raion with Iskander cruise missiles , killing a two-year-old girl and injuring 22 other civilians , including five children. (Reuters) 
 Egypt Israel relations 
 2023 Egypt Israel border shooting incident 
 Three Israeli soldiers and an Egyptian policeman are killed in an exchange of fire near the Egyptian-Israeli border . It is the first fatal incident between the two countries in more than a decade. ( The Washington Post ) 
 Aftermath of the Chiapas conflict 
 Seven people are killed during a mass shooting against villagers in Polh , a Zapatista community in Chenalh , Mexico . (La Prensa Latina) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2023 United States debt-ceiling crisis 
 President Joe Biden signs the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 to prevent the United States from breaching its debt ceiling . (NBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Nova Scotia wildfires 
 A wildfire in Shelburne County , Nova Scotia , Canada , continues to burn out of control, becoming the largest wildfire in the province 's history. (CBC News) 
 Four children are found dead on a beach in Portneuf-sur-Mer , Quebec , Canada, after eleven people on a fishing trip on the St. Lawrence River were caught in a tidal bore and went missing. Six of the eleven people have been rescued, while one man is still missing. (CNN) 
 Two people are killed when a small plane crashes at Tupelo Regional Airport in Tupelo , Mississippi , USA . (AP) 
 One person is killed, another injured and 14 rescued after an overcrowded boat capsizes off the coast of Haiti . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Epsom Derby 
 Surrey Police make 19 arrests on suspicion of "conspiracy to cause public nuisance" ahead of the Epsom Derby . (BBC Sport) 
 Seven people are killed and two others injured in a mass shooting at a hostel in the township of Umlazi , KwaZulu-Natal , South Africa . ( News 24 ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Third inauguration of Recep Tayyip Erdo an 
 The third inauguration of Recep Tayyip Erdo an as President of Turkey takes place at the Presidential Complex in Ankara . (TIME) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 23 FA Cup 
 In association football , Manchester City beat rivals Manchester United 2 1 in the FA Cup final at Wembley Stadium in London to win their seventh FA Cup title. lkay G ndo an breaks the record for the fastest goal in an FA Cup final, scoring after just 12 seconds. (BBC Sport) 
 2022 23 UEFA Women's Champions League 
 FC Barcelona Femen win their second UEFA Women's Champions League title after defeating VfL Wolfsburg 3 2 in the final at the Philips Stadion in Eindhoven , Netherlands . Fridolina Rolf scored the winner after Barcelona had trailed 2 0 at the break. (Al Jazeera) 
 Month June 2023 Previous day June 2 Next day June 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_June_3&oldid=1165776525 "