
 
 
 April 1, 2025 ( 2025-04-01 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Middle Eastern crisis 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 UNICEF reports that over 332 children have been killed and 609 injured by the new Israeli military offensive across the Gaza Strip since the resumption of the war after the breakdown of the 2025 ceasefire . (BBC News) (UNICEF) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israel Lebanon ceasefire agreement 
 Four people are killed, including Hassan Bdeir, a high-ranking Hezbollah official, and seven others are injured by an Israeli airstrike on a building in Dahieh , Beirut , Lebanon . (Reuters) (Al Jazeera) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 March 2025 United States attacks in Yemen 
 The Houthis claim that they shot down a U.S. military -operated MQ-9 Reaper drone in Marib Governorate , Yemen . (AP) 
 U.S. missile strikes on Hodeidah , Yemen, hit a water management facility , killing at least four people, according to the Houthi-run Al-Masirah network. (Al Jazeera) 
 The U.S. announces it is sending a second aircraft carrier strike group, the USS Carl Vinson group, to the region. (Al Jazeera) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern front of the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 The Russian ministry of defence says that Russian forces have captured Rozlyv [ uk ] in Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine . (Al Arabiya) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 2025 Sundhn kur eruptions 
 Seismic activity increases near Grindav k , Iceland , with the Icelandic Meteorological Office reporting that a volcanic eruption has occurred and a earthquake is being registered. People visiting the Blue Lagoon are evacuated rapidly. ( The Watchers ) 
 2025 Putra Heights pipeline fire 
 At least 305 people are injured after a gas pipeline owned by Petronas explodes and ignites a fire in Putra Heights , Selangor , Malaysia . ( Malay Mail ) 
 A small airplane crashes into a lake in Os near Bergen , Norway , killing the two people onboard. ( Sunnm rsposten ) 
 International relations 
 
 Cross-strait relations 
 The Chinese PLA Navy and Air Force conduct large-scale military exercises around Taiwan . At least 19 Chinese warships are deployed, including the aircraft carrier Shandong , marking its closest ever approach to the island. ( The Guardian ) ( Financial Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Cory Booker's marathon speech 
 U.S. Senator Cory Booker delivers the longest speech in United States Senate history, breaking the previous record set by Strom Thurmond in 1957. (AP News) 
 Denise Bronzetti and Italo Righi are sworn in as the new Captains Regent of San Marino . ( San Marino RTV ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Private spaceflight 
 SpaceX successfully launches four humans into orbit over Earth s poles for the first time for the human spaceflight mission Fram2 . The journey will last three to five days. ( The New York Times ) 
 Month April 2025 Previous day March 31 Next day April 2 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_April_1&oldid=1286096250 "