
 
 
 May 2, 2025 ( 2025-05-02 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Humanitarian aid during the Gaza war 
 Gaza Freedom Flotilla incident 
 A Gaza -bound activist humanitarian aid ship, part of the Gaza Freedom Flotilla , catches fire and issues an SOS after what its organizers alleged was an Israeli drone attack off the coast of Malta in international waters . (CNN) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Rust is released theatrically in the United States , three and a half years after a fatal on-set shooting accident occurred involving members of the cast and crew, including cinematographer Halyna Hutchins , director Joel Souza , and lead actor Alec Baldwin . ( The New York Times ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Tariffs in the second Trump administration 
 China United States trade war 
 The Trump administration terminates the de minimis tariff exemption for some imports shipped directly to consumers. Online shops such as Shein and Temu adjust prices , while Temu also announces a shipping pause to the United States . ( The New York Times ) (BBC) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Seven people, including six Italian and Chinese nationals, are killed and at least sixteen others are injured, some severely, when a truck and a van collide and catch fire on U.S. Route 20 near Yellowstone National Park in Idaho , United States. (NBC News) (CBS News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports 216 children have died this flu season in the United States , making it the deadliest since the 2009 swine flu pandemic . (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Immigration policy of the second Donald Trump administration 
 The United States Department of Defense designates a second area on the Mexico United States border , attached to the Fort Bliss Army base in El Paso , Texas , as a military zone to enforce immigration laws. (AP News) 
 Gang war in Haiti , Haiti United States relations 
 The United States Department of State designates the Viv Ansanm coalition and the Gran Grif gang as Foreign Terrorist Organizations . (NBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Freedom of the press in the United States 
 US President Donald Trump signs an executive order calling for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting to stop directly funding NPR and PBS , and for government agencies to stop indirectly funding these public broadcasters. (CNN) 
 The German Constitution protection office designates the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party as a right-wing extremist organization. The AfD came second in the 2025 German federal election after winning 20.8% of the vote for a record 152 seats in the Bundestag . (BBC News) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 1 Next day May 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_2&oldid=1291017167 "