
 
 
 May 18, 2024 ( 2024-05-18 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Israeli war cabinet 
 Benny Gantz threatens to withdraw his party from the unity coalition if Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu doesn't submit a post-war plan for Gaza by June 8. (Al Jazeera) 
 Austria unfreezes 3.4 million (US$3.7 million) in funds to the UNRWA . (Reuters) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Rakhine offensive 
 The Arakan Army seizes control of Buthidaung after the army captures Tatmadaw positions in the surrounding area. The town, which hosts a majority Rohingya population, is burned amidst the crossfire. (AP) 
 2024 New Caledonia unrest 
 The death toll from the ongoing protests and riots in New Caledonia increases to six. (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Afghanistan Pakistan floods 
 At least 68 people are killed by floods in Ghor and Faryab provinces, Afghanistan . (AP) 
 Three people are killed and five others are injured in a boat collision on Bobs Lake in Ontario , Canada . (CBC News) 
 At least 23 migrants are missing after boarding a boat travelling from Tunisia to Italy . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 2024 Bishkek riots 
 The Foreign Ministry of Pakistan asks that Pakistani nationals in Kyrgyzstan stay indoors after mob attacks on Pakistanis and other foreign nationals are reported. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Italian financial police seize 134 Fiat cars imported from Morocco following a dispute on stickers indicating the origin of the car. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 2024 Georgian protests 
 President of Georgia Salome Zourabichvili vetoes the proposed "Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence". ( The Guardian ) 
 LGBT rights in Peru 
 Hundreds of protesters march in Lima , Peru , to demand the reversal of a new law that describes transgender people as having a mental illness. (Reuters) 
 The Communist Party of Vietnam nominates Minister of Public Security T L m as the next President after V V n Th ng resigned as President in March due to the party's anti-corruption campaign . (Al Jazeera) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 24 Bundesliga 
 In association football , Bundesliga champions Bayer 04 Leverkusen become the first Bundesliga team to finish a season unbeaten after defeating FC Augsburg on the final matchday. ( The New York Times ) 
 2023 24 Women's Super League 
 In association football , Chelsea F.C. Women wins their 7th Women's Super League title after defeating Manchester United W.F.C. 6 0 in the final match. (Reuters) 
 Tyson Fury vs Oleksandr Usyk 
 In boxing , Oleksandr Usyk defeats Tyson Fury by split decision and becomes the first undisputed four-belt heavyweight champion in history. (BBC Sport) 
 Month May 2024 Previous day May 17 Next day May 19 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_May_18&oldid=1243892235 "