
 
 
 September 25, 2023 ( 2023-09-25 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2022 present North Kosovo crisis 
 Banjska attack 
 Kosovo Police enter the village of Banjska , North Kosovo , with armored vehicles , a day after the village was attacked by gunmen. (Reuters) 
 Aftermath of the 2023 Azerbaijani offensive in Nagorno-Karabakh 
 Exodus of Armenians from Nagorno-Karabakh 
 The number of refugees that have fled to Armenia from Artsakh increases to 6,500, while a further 700 are sheltering with Russian peacekeepers. (AP) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Ukraine receives its first shipment of M1 Abrams tanks from the United States . (RFE/RL) 
 Yemeni civil war 
 Houthi Saudi Arabian conflict 
 An ambush by Houthi insurgents kills two Bahraini soldiers , including an officer, and injures several others. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Nagorno-Karabakh fuel depot explosion 
 Sixty-eight people are killed and 290 others are injured by an explosion at a fuel warehouse near Stepanakert , Artsakh . (Al Jazeera) 
 Six people are killed and 13 others are missing following heavy rains and a landslide in Guatemala City , Guatemala . (AFP via GMA News) 
 Flooding in Autl n de Navarro , Jalisco , Mexico , kills seven people and leaves nine others missing. (AP) 
 Five people are killed when two private planes collide in La Galancita, Durango , Mexico . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Territorial disputes in the South China Sea 
 The Philippine Coast Guard removes a series of buoys installed by China in the contested Scarborough Shoal in the South China Sea under orders of President Bongbong Marcos . (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Aftermath of the Derna dam collapses 
 The mayor of Derna , Libya , Abdelmounem al-Ghaithi, and several other officials are detained over mis management and negligence accusations following the Derna dam collapse which killed over 5,000 people. (Reuters) 
 Burkina Faso suspends Jeune Afrique from reporting in the country after the release of a report claiming tension and discontent within the Burkinabe Armed Forces . (Reuters) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 24 Next day September 26 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_25&oldid=1177786302 "