
 
 
 January 5, 2023 ( 2023-01-05 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2023 Russian Christmas truce proposal 
 Following the suggestion of Patriarch Kirill of Moscow , Russian President Vladimir Putin announces a unilateral ceasefire on January 6 7 in connection with Orthodox Christmas . However, Ukraine rejects an offer to respond with a mutual ceasefire, citing lack of trust. (Reuters) 
 Foreign aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 The United States and Germany agree to send Bradley Fighting Vehicles and Marder infantry fighting vehicles to Ukraine. Germany will also supply the Ukrainian military with a MIM-104 Patriot surface-to-air missile system. ( The Guardian ) (AFP via The Times of Israel ) 
 Mexican drug war 
 2023 Sinaloa unrest 
 The army arrests Ovidio Guzm n L pez , the son of incarcerated drug lord Joaqu n "El Chapo" Guzm n , in Culiac n , Sinaloa . The arrest is followed by state-wide unrest, with many schools and airports closed. Ten soldiers and 19 gang members are killed during the unrest. (BBC News) ( The Guardian ) 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 Islamic State Taliban conflict 
 The Taliban says that its forces have killed eight Islamic State insurgents , including foreign nationals, and arrested seven others in a series of raids in Kabul and the western Nimruz Province , following recent attacks by the jihadist group. (Al Jazeera) 
 Aegean dispute 
 A Turkish coast guard vessel exchanges warning shots with a Greek coast guard vessel near the Greek island of Farmakonisi . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Three people are killed and nine others are injured after a building collapses in Mosul , Iraq . (NewsToday) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Greece 
 Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic 
 Greece announces that travelers from China will require a negative COVID-19 test in order to enter the country. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Death and funeral of Pope Benedict XVI 
 The funeral for Pope emeritus Benedict XVI takes place in St. Peter's Square , Vatican City , with at least 50,000 attendees. (AP) 
 The government of Chad reports that an "attempted destabilization" plot led by military and human rights activists has failed. The statement says that the arrests of the 11 people involved took place later than 8 December 2022. (AFP via France 24) 
 Month January 2023 Previous day January 4 Next day January 6 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_January_5&oldid=1179318295 "