
 
 
 December 16, 2023 ( 2023-12-16 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 An IDF 129th Battalion soldier is killed and two other soldiers were injured by a Hezbollah drone strike near Margaliot , which also caused a fire in a building. Another drone was shot down by the IDF, which then shelled and launched airstrikes on Hezbollah targets. (JPost) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Operation 1027 
 The Three Brotherhood Alliance claims to have captured Namhsan in the northern Shan State , following a joint offensive against the Myanmar military despite a temporary ceasefire mediated by China . (AFP via France 24) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Southern Ukraine campaign 
 Russia says that two civilians are killed and two others are injured in a Ukrainian missile strike on the Russian-occupied village of Nova Maiachka in Kherson Raion . (AFP via Al Arabiya) 
 Yemeni Crisis 
 Red Sea crisis 
 The Royal Navy 's HMS Diamond shoots down a drone launched from Houthi -controlled territory in Yemen over the Red Sea using a Sea Viper missile . ( The Guardian ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Libya migrant boats sinking 
 A boat departing from Zuwarah , Libya , carrying about 86 illegal immigrants from various African countries , sinks in the Mediterranean Sea , killing about 61 of them. ( The Telegraph ) 
 At least 13 people are killed after a thunderstorm strikes Bah a Blanca , Argentina . (Reuters) 
 Three people are killed and two others injured when a wall of the Gate of Floggers collapses while it is being renovated in Kairouan , Tunisia . ( The Guardian ) 
 Health and environment 
 
 The China Meteorological Administration issues a low-temperature warning , forecasting a cold wave affecting most of the country . (AFP via The Straits Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment in Iran 
 Iran executes an alleged Mossad agent in Sistan and Baluchistan province . (Reuters) 
 Gansu ultramarathon disaster 
 A court in Baiyin , Gansu , China , sentences five organizers of a 2021 ultramarathon to prison terms ranging from three to five and a half years, following the deaths of 21 runners due to extreme weather during the event. (AFP via The Straits Times ) 
 Fifteen suspected drug smugglers are killed and about 2 million methamphetamine tablets are seized during a shootout with soldiers at Thailand 's border with Myanmar . (AP) 
 A court in the Holy See sentences Cardinal Giovanni Angelo Becciu to five and a half years in prison for embezzlement . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Emir of Kuwait Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah dies at 86. His half-brother, Crown Prince Mishal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah , succeeds him as the new emir . (AFP via TBS ) 
 Month December 2023 Previous day December 15 Next day December 17 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_December_16&oldid=1239547848 "