
 
 
 February 15, 2024 ( 2024-02-15 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Siege of Khan Yunis 
 Israeli special forces raid Nasser Hospital in Khan Yunis , the largest hospital still functioning in the Gaza Strip . At least one person is killed and eight others are reportedly injured during the raid. ( The Guardian ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 present United Kingdom cost-of-living crisis 
 The United Kingdom enters a technical recession , as a report issued by the Office for National Statistics stated that the economy shrunk in two consecutive quarters amid a slowdown in consumer spending . (CNBC) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Eleven people are killed and four more injured during a fire at a paint factory in New Delhi , India . (AP) 
 Nine firefighters are injured when a truck fuel tank explodes in the Wilmington neighborhood of Los Angeles , California , United States . ( The Guardian ) 
 International relations 
 
 Russia United States relations , Russia and weapons of mass destruction 
 The Kremlin dismisses a warning by the United States that Russia intends to imminently place nuclear weapons in space as a "malicious fabrication". The claims were widely circulated yesterday by ABC News and the New York Times after U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson warned of a "serious national security threat". (Reuters) (Reuters 2) 
 Reuters reports that it is highly unlikely that Russia intends to put a nuclear warhead in space. The antisatellite weapon is more likely a nuclear-powered space-based device that utilizes electronic warfare to blind, jam or fry the electronics inside targets. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Same-sex marriage in Greece 
 The Hellenic Parliament votes 176 76 to legalise same-sex marriage and adoption , making it the first Eastern Orthodox country to do so. ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Wellingborough by-election , 2024 Kingswood by-election 
 In the United Kingdom, the Labour Party 's Gen Kitchen and Damien Egan respectively flip the seats of Wellingborough and Kingswood from the Conservative Party in two by-elections . (BBC News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Odysseus , the first US lunar lander since the unsuccessful Peregrine Mission One , is launched at the Kennedy Space Center Florida , United States . (Space.com) 
 Sports 
 
 In US women's college basketball, Iowa's Caitlin Clark becomes the career scoring leader in NCAA Division I , surpassing the record previously held by current WNBA and former Washington star Kelsey Plum during Iowa's 106 89 win over Michigan . (AP) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 14 Next day February 16 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_15&oldid=1288686592 "