
 
 
 November 20, 2023 ( 2023-11-20 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Hezbollah launches Burkan rockets at the IDF base of Biranit which sustains heavy damage. (TheAtlasNews) 
 Mexican drug war 
 A shootout between police and armed civilians in Cuernavaca , Morelos , kills nine people, including two police officers. (AP) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Operation 1107 
 Artillery fired by the military destroys a monastery in Loikaw , Kayah State , killing two monks. ( The Irrawaddy ) 
 War in Sudan 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 The Rapid Support Forces announce that it has captured the Jebel Aulia Dam . ( Sudan Tribune ) 
 Darfur campaign 
 The Rapid Support Forces launch an assault on Ed Daein , the capital of East Darfur , capturing the city's airport , as the group attempts to seize the headquarters of the Sudanese Armed Forces 20th Infantry Division. ( Sudan Tribune ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Turkey floods 
 Nine people are killed and eleven more are missing after floods across Turkey . (AP) 
 Ten people are killed by a gold mine collapse in Suriname . (AP) 
 An avalanche kills three people and leaves several others missing in Wrangell, Alaska , United States . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Diplomatic impact of the 2023 Israel Hamas war 
 Israel South Africa relations 
 Israel recalls its ambassador from South Africa after Minister in the Presidency Khumbudzo Ntshavheni called on the International Criminal Court to issue an arrest warrant against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 UK Covid-19 Inquiry 
 British government response to the COVID-19 pandemic 
 Chief Scientific Adviser to the British government during the COVID-19 pandemic , Patrick Vallance , says that Prime Minister Rishi Sunak , then finance minister , said "just let people die" during a discussion on a potential second lockdown in late 2020. (Reuters) 
 Month November 2023 Previous day November 19 Next day November 21 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_November_20&oldid=1273740591 "