
 
 
 March 4, 2023 ( 2023-03-04 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Battle of Bakhmut 
 Heavy street fighting takes place between Russian and Ukrainian troops in Bakhmut , Donetsk Oblast . The city's deputy mayor Oleksandr Marchenko says that "not a single building" has remained untouched by fighting, and that the city is "almost destroyed". (BBC News) 
 In a rare high-level visit to the Donbas , Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu is filmed inspecting troops in "the eastern military district in the south Donetsk direction". ( The Guardian ) 
 Kivu conflict 
 Burundi deploys 100 troops to the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo to help the country fight insurgencies by militias , including M23 . (AFP via The East African ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Seven people are killed and 17 others are injured in a fire and subsequent explosion at an oxygen plant in Sitakunda , Bangladesh . (Dhaka Tribune) 
 Twenty-one people are injured in a bus crash in Corps , Auvergne-Rh ne-Alpes , France . (AP) 
 A Norfolk Southern train derails in Clark County, Ohio , United States, with local residents advised to shelter in place. The derailment comes just over one month after the derailment of a Norfolk Southern train carrying hazardous materials in East Palestine, Ohio . However, no hazardous materials are known to be involved in the Clark County derailment. (WDTN-TV) 
 International relations 
 
 United Nations member states finalize the text of the High Seas Treaty , which aims to declare 30% of the world's oceans marine protected areas by 2030. (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Assassination of Roel Degamo 
 Nine people, including Negros Oriental governor Roel Degamo , are killed by unknown gunmen in Degamo's home in Pamplona , Philippines . (AFP via The Bangkok Post ) ( SunStar ) 
 Month March 2023 Previous day March 3 Next day March 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_March_4&oldid=1173055070 "