
 
 
 August 2, 2022 ( 2022-08-02 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Three people evacuating in a minibus are killed by Russian shelling near Kherson Oblast , according to Ukraine 's Operational Command South . ( The Guardian ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Fifty-three people are injured after a suspected gas leak in Visakhapatnam , Andhra Pradesh , India . (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak in the United States 
 California declares a state of emergency due to the ongoing monkeypox outbreak. (UPI) 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Asia 
 COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines 
 The Department of Health announces that the Philippines have reported their first two cases of the Omicron BA.2.75 variant in two individuals from Western Visayas . (GMA) (Rappler) 
 COVID-19 pandemic in South Korea 
 South Korea surpasses 20 million cases of COVID-19 , becoming the eighth country to do so. ( The Chosun Ilbo ) 
 International relations 
 
 Taiwan United States relations 
 Nancy Pelosi's Taiwan visit 
 U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi arrives in Taiwan despite Chinese threats of military action in response to her visit. Pelosi is the most senior U.S. official to visit the self-governing island since Newt Gingrich in 1997. (CBC) 
 The People's Liberation Army is placed on high alert and says that it will launch "targeted military operations" in response to Pelosi's visit to Taiwan. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Abortion in the United States 
 Abortion in Kansas 
 2022 Kansas Value Them Both Amendment 
 In the first referendum since the Supreme Court 's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade , Kansas voters reject an amendment in the state constitution that would grant state lawmakers the ability to apply anti-abortion restrictions. (ABC News) (BBC News) 
 In the first legal challenge to a state's abortion law since the Supreme Court's June decision to overturn Roe v. Wade , the Department of Justice (DOJ) files a lawsuit in a federal court against the state of Idaho to block a state law that the DOJ says imposes a "near-absolute ban" on abortion in Idaho . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 The Russian Supreme Court declares the Azov Regiment a terrorist organization . (Euractiv) 
 Month August 2022 Previous day August 1 Next day August 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_August_2&oldid=1119046122 "