
 
 
 July 17, 2022 ( 2022-07-17 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Seven people are killed by flooding in Darfur , Sudan . (AP) 
 Flooding in China's Sichuan and Gansu provinces kills 12 people and leaves thousands homeless. (AP) 
 Four people are killed when a Bernalillo County Sheriff's Office helicopter crashes near Las Vegas, New Mexico , United States. (U.S. News & World Report) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Asia 
 COVID-19 pandemic in India 
 Health officials in India report that the country surpassed the two billion mark in cumulative administered doses of the COVID-19 vaccine . (WION) 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Israel 
 The Israeli Health Ministry confirms three cases of the Omicron BA.2.75 variant in travelers abroad. ( Times of Israel ) 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak in the United States 
 Three more monkeypox vaccination sites open in New York City in an effort to combat the spread of monkeypox . (Patch.com) 
 International relations 
 
 Croatia Serbia relations 
 Croatia refuses to allow a private visit from the President of Serbia Aleksandar Vu i to the site of the Jasenovac concentration camp due to the Government of Croatia not being formally notified of the visit. ( The Washington Post ) 
 Nuclear program of Iran 
 Former Minister of Foreign Affairs and senior adviser to Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei , Kamal Kharazi , confirms that Iran now has the capabilities to develop and build a nuclear weapon but says that "there has been no decision by Iran to build one". Kharazi also warns that Iran will "directly respond" to Israel if it is attacked. ( Straits Times ) ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Greenwood Park Mall shooting 
 Three people and the gunman are killed and two others injured in a mass shooting at the food court of Greenwood Park Mall in Greenwood, Indiana , United States. ( The Indianapolis Star ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Nigerian elections 
 2022 Nigerian gubernatorial elections 
 2022 Osun State gubernatorial election 
 Former senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party defeats incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress . The election has been labeled as a potential bellwether as it is the final major election before the national presidential election in early 2023 . (Premium Times) 
 Month July 2022 Previous day July 16 Next day July 18 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_July_17&oldid=1142040691 "