
 
 
 May 22, 2024 ( 2024-05-22 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 Russia captures the village of Klishchiivka in Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine. (Al Jazeera) 
 At least two people are killed and four are injured by Ukrainian shelling in Lysychansk , Luhansk Oblast , Ukraine. (Al Jazeera) 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Sweden announces US$7 billion in military aid to Ukraine from 2024 to 2026. (Bloomberg) 
 Russia returns six Ukrainian children displaced by the war back to Ukraine, in a deal brokered by Qatar . (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 New Caledonia unrest 
 Australia and New Zealand begin evacuating their citizens from New Caledonia amid civil unrest. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 San Pedro Garza Garc a stage collapse 
 Ten people are killed, including a child, and 213 are injured after a temporary stage collapses in high winds at a campaign event for the Citizens' Movement party in San Pedro Garza Garcia , Nuevo Le n , Mexico . Later, the Nuevo Le n government pledges 400,000 pesos ($23,900) in compensation to families of the deceased. (AP) ( El Pa s ) (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 International recognition of the State of Palestine 
 Norway Palestine relations , Ireland Palestine relations , Palestine Spain relations 
 The governments of Norway , Ireland , and Spain announce that they will recognise the State of Palestine as a sovereign state beginning on May 28, and also call for a two-state solution . In response, Israel recalls its ambassadors to these countries. (BBC News) 
 Russia NATO relations 
 The Russian Ministry of Defence proposes to unilaterally adjust Russia 's maritime border in the Baltic Sea , prompting comments of concern made by Baltic members of NATO , including Finland and Lithuania . The Ministry of Defense later retracts the proposal. (Reuters) (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Bishkek riots 
 The Kyrgyz Ministry of Internal Affairs announces that ten people, including four foreigners, have been detained in connection with violent riots that occurred in Bishkek last week. (RFE/RL) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Chadian presidential election 
 Prime Minister Succ s Masra of the transitional government resigns after Mahamat D by is elected President . (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 United Kingdom general election 
 Prime Minister Rishi Sunak announces that the next general election will be held on 4 July. (CNN) 
 2024 Vietnamese presidential election 
 Security Minister T L m is elected President by the National Assembly , two months after the resignation of V V n Th ng amid the ruling Communist Party 's anti-corruption campaign . (DW) 
 President of the United States Joe Biden announces a student loan debt cancellation of $7.7 billion for 160,000 people. (Al Jazeera) 
 German far-right party Alternative for Germany bans Maximilian Krah , its leading candidate in European elections, from further activities due to his comments defending members of the Schutzstaffel (SS). (Al Jazeera) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Russia launches a Soyuz-2 rocket carrying the Kosmos 2576 satellite from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome launch site in Arkhangelsk Oblast . The United States Space Command accuses it of being an anti-satellite weapon capable of attacking other satellites, and is in the same orbit as a satellite operated by the National Reconnaissance Office . (Al Jazeera) 
 The United Nations Security Council votes against a resolution introduced by Russia and China banning member states from placing weapons in outer space . (Space.com) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 24 UEFA Europa League 
 In association football , Atalanta win the UEFA Europa League over Bayer Leverkusen by a score of 3 0 in the final , ending Bayer Leverkusen's record of 51 unbeaten games. It is also Atalanta's first major trophy since 1963. ( The Guardian ) 
 Month May 2024 Previous day May 21 Next day May 23 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_May_22&oldid=1232254035 "