
 
 
 January 4, 2024 ( 2024-01-04 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Iraqi conflict 
 U.S. drone strikes in Iraq and Syria 
 A U.S. drone strike in Baghdad , Iraq , kills four Harakat Hezbollah al-Nujaba militants , including senior leader Mushtaq Talib Al-Saeedi . (Reuters) 
 2023 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 Siege of Khan Yunis 
 IDF claimed to have significantly degraded the command and control of Hamas Khan Younis Brigade's northern and eastern battalions with the destruction of tunnel systems, infrastructure and deaths of company commanders. (Understanding War) 
 Kerman bombings 
 Islamic State 's Khorasan Province claims responsibility for yesterday's double bombing in Kerman , Iran , which killed 103 people. (BBC News) (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 New York City Subway derailment 
 Five people are killed and 22 others are injured in a fire at a hospital in Uelzen , Lower Saxony , Germany . (AP) 
 At least 1,000 cars are stranded on the E22 highway in Sweden between H rby and Kristianstad due to heavy snow with people spending the night in their vehicles. The Swedish Army helped drivers get out of their vehicles and supplied them with basic amenities. (NOS) 
 A private plane en route from J. F. Mitchell Airport in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to Hewanorra International Airport in Saint Lucia crashes shortly after takeoff, killing four people including German actor Christian Oliver and his two daughters. (Loop News) (AFP via Hindustan Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Perry High School shooting 
 Three people are killed (including the perpetrator) and six others are injured during a mass school shooting in Perry, Iowa , United States . (KCCI-TV) 
 Treatment of women by the Taliban 
 A spokesman for the Vice and Virtue Ministry of the Taliban in Afghanistan announces the arrest of an unspecified number of women for wearing "bad hijab ", in the first known crackdown on the dress code since the Taliban's return to power in August 2021. (AP) 
 Myanmar announces the pardon of 9,652 prisoners, including 114 foreigners, to mark the country's independence day . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin issues a decree granting Russian citizenship to foreigners who fight for Russia in the war against Ukraine , and for their families. (Reuters) 
 Mohammad Sabah Al-Salem Al-Sabah is appointed as Prime Minister of Kuwait . (Reuters) 
 Month January 2024 Previous day January 3 Next day January 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_January_4&oldid=1258846488 "