
 
 
 April 20, 2023 ( 2023-04-20 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 War in Sudan (2023) 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Amid fighting, a food shortage is reported in Khartoum . (BBC News) 
 An American citizen is killed in Khartoum, becoming the second confirmed foreign death. (CBS News) 
 Evacuation of foreign nationals during the War in Sudan (2023) 
 The United States sends additional troops and equipment to Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti in preparation for a possible evacuation of Americans from Sudan . (ABC News) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian authorities report an explosion in Belgorod near the border with Ukraine , saying that it left a 20-metre (66 ft) crater in the city center. It resulted from an accidental discharge of ammunition from a Russian airplane. ( Barron's via AFP) (Reuters) 
 Insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir 
 Five Indian soldiers are killed in a suspected militant attack in Rajouri district , Jammu and Kashmir . (Al Jazeera) 
 Iran United States relations 
 An Iranian Navy commander claims on state television that the Iranian Navy forced a U.S. submarine to surface as it transited the Strait of Hormuz and that the submarine violated Iranian territorial waters. The U.S. denies the Iranian claims. (Radiofarda) 
 Business and economy 
 
 American media site BuzzFeed reports that it will shut down BuzzFeed News as part of its site-wide layoffs . (NBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Former Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo loses his request for an emergency stay in the United States , as a deadline for his extradition to Peru nears, where he faces numerous charges. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Governor of Krasnoyarsk Krai Aleksandr Uss resigns after being offered a position in the federal government . Russian President Vladimir Putin invites Deputy Finance Minister Mikhail Kotyukov to assume the post of acting governor. (TASS) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Solar eclipse of April 20, 2023 
 A hybrid solar eclipse occurs across the South Pacific in Australia , East Timor , and Indonesia . ( The New York Times ) ( People ) 
 SpaceX Starship orbital test flight 
 SpaceX launches the first test flight of Starship , the largest and most powerful launch vehicle to ever fly, from Starbase in South Texas . The vehicle successfully launched but lost control and the flight was explosively terminated four minutes after liftoff. ( The New York Times ) (BBC News) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 19 Next day April 21 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_20&oldid=1281208943 "