
 
 
 September 19, 2023 ( 2023-09-19 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 September 2023 Jenin incursion 
 Four Palestinians are killed and 30 others are injured in an Israeli Army raid in the Jenin refugee camp in the occupied West Bank . Two other Palestinians were also killed both in Jericho and Khan Yunis that afternoon. (Al Jazeera) 
 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
 2023 Azerbaijani offensive in Nagorno-Karabakh 
 Four Azerbaijani police officers and two civilians are killed by separate mine explosions in Nagorno-Karabakh , with Azerbaijan blaming Armenian sabotage groups for the deaths. (AFP via Al Arabiya) 
 Azerbaijan launches an offensive on Nagorno-Karabakh, demanding the withdrawal of ethnic Armenian forces. Azerbaijani forces strike Stepanakert , its de facto capital. (Al Jazeera) (CBC News) 
 Azerbaijan claims that its forces broke through the contact line and captured over 60 military posts in Nagorno-Karabakh. Artsakh forces deny the claims. (Reuters) 
 Artsakh says 25 people, including a child, were killed due to the fighting, and 138 others were injured. Azerbaijan says one civilian was killed by shelling in Shusha . (AP) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Nine people are killed in Russian attacks across Ukraine , including six civilians in Kupiansk , Kharkiv Oblast . (Reuters) 
 War in Sudan 
 CNN, citing a source in the Ukrainian military, reports that Ukrainian special forces were likely behind recent drone strikes and a ground operation against Wagner Group mercenaries in Sudan . (CNN) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The Institut Europ en d'Arch ologie Sous-Marine announces the discovery of the site of a temple to the god Amun and a Greek sanctuary devoted to Aphrodite in Thonis-Heracleion in the Abu Qir Bay in Egypt . (CNN) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Ten people are killed and eight others are injured by two tornadoes in Yancheng and Suqian in Jiangsu , China . (Reuters) 
 Eight people are killed when a military plane crashes in Lamu County , Kenya , near the border with Somalia . (AFP via Africanews) 
 Two people are killed and nine others are seriously injured when a bus plunges into a ravine near Cetinje , Montenegro . (Sky News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2022 2023 mpox outbreak 
 Laos reports its first case of mpox . The national health ministry recommends that provincial health departments set up laboratory facilities for screening tests. (Xinhua) 
 International relations 
 
 Seventy-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly 
 The general debate of the United Nations General Assembly opens at the UN Headquarters in New York City , United States . ( The Guardian ) 
 Southeast Asian bloc ASEAN holds its first-ever joint military exercise in Indonesia . The five-day drills focus on humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. (Kyodo News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Polish parliamentary election 
 Cash-for-visa scandal 
 Documents allegedly from the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs indicate that the Polish embassy in Minsk , Belarus , issued 784,173 visas to individuals from 65 countries with the aid of a Moscow -based company. Individuals who were denied entry at the Belarus-European Union border during the Belarus European Union border crisis may also have been granted visas. ( Gazeta.pl via MSN News) 
 Derna dam collapses 
 Protesters burn down the house of mayor of Derna Abdulmenam Al-Ghaithi in response to the catastrophic floods . Internet and telephone access are subsequently shut down and foreign journalists are ordered to leave the city. (BBC News) 
 Extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances in the Philippines 
 Two environmental activists , who disappeared on September 2, are released in the Philippines and publicly accuse the military of their abduction. The authorities have denied these allegations. (AFP via Al Jazeera) 
 Science and technology 
 
 2023 Hawaii wildfires 
 The Lahaina Banyan Tree in Hawaii , United States, shows signs of new growth a month after being damaged by wildfires . ( The Washington Post ) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 18 Next day September 20 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_19&oldid=1258151533 "