
 
 
 June 25, 2022 ( 2022-06-25 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Battle of Sievierodonetsk 
 The mayor of Sieverodonetsk announces that Russian forces have "fully occupied" the city. (Reuters) 
 Eastern Ukraine offensive 
 Pro-Russian forces say that they have entered the city of Lysychansk , the last major city still held by Ukrainian forces in Luhansk Oblast , and that street-to-street fighting is underway. (First Post) 
 Russia launches dozens of cruise missiles at targets in multiple Ukrainian cities, including Yavoriv , Zhytomyr , and Desna . At least 20 missiles were fired from Belarusian airspace. (Reuters) (Yahoo! News) 
 2022 Oslo shooting 
 Two people are killed and 21 others injured during mass shootings at three separate sites in central Oslo , Norway , including a gay nightclub . An Iranian-Norwegian man is arrested and charged with murder , attempted murder , and terrorism . The motive is suspected to be Islamic extremism . (BBC News) (NRK) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 A 16-year-old Palestinian teenager dies in Israeli custody after being shot yesterday by soldiers in Silwad , West Bank . (Al Jazeera) 
 Anglophone Crisis 
 Akwaya massacre 
 Twenty-six people are killed in an attack in Akwaya district, Southwest region , Cameroon . (Reuters) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Miss International Queen 2022 
 Fuschia Anne Ravena of the Philippines is crowned Miss International Queen , widely regarded as the world's largest beauty pageant for trans women , in Pattaya , Thailand . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A magnitude 5.6 earthquake strikes near Kish Island , Iran , killing one person and injuring 31 others. (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in mainland China 
 Shanghai declares "victory" over COVID-19 and Beijing announces the reopening of primary and secondary schools following a decrease in the number of cases. (Reuters) 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak 
 The World Health Organization declares that monkeypox is not yet a public health emergency of international concern . (NBC News) 
 Japan reports a record high temperature for the month of June of 40.2 C (104.4 F) in Isesaki , Gunma Prefecture . (Kyodo News) 
 International relations 
 
 Member states of the Commonwealth of Nations 
 Togo and Gabon officially become members of the Commonwealth of Nations . (France 24) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Ecuadorian protests 
 The National Assembly convenes to debate the possible removal of president Guillermo Lasso amidst ongoing protests. ( La Naci n ) 
 Gun politics in the United States 
 U.S. President Joe Biden signs the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act into law. (CNN) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 Mediterranean Games 
 The 19th Mediterranean Games opens in Oran , Algeria . ( Mundo Deportivo ) 
 Month June 2022 Previous day June 24 Next day June 26 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_June_25&oldid=1096693663 "