
 
 
 February 11, 2023 ( 2023-02-11 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 High-altitude object events in 2023 
 2023 Yukon high-altitude object 
 Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau orders the takedown of an unidentified flying object over Yukon , which is later shot down by a United States Air Force F-22 Raptor using a AIM-9X Sidewinder . The Canadian Armed Forces have been deployed to collect and analyze the object. (CNN) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 A suicide bomber blows himself up near a security forces' vehicle in North Waziristan District , Pakistan , killing three soldiers and wounding 20 more. (News Drum) 
 Syrian civil war 
 At least ten civilians and a soldier are killed in a mass shooting by Islamic State gunmen at a truffle farm in Palmyra , Homs Governorate , Syria . (AFP via VOA) 
 Internal conflict in Peru 
 Seven police officers are killed and another is injured when their vehicle is ambushed in Valle de los R os Apur mac, Ene y Mantaro , Peru , in a suspected attack by remnants of Shining Path . ( Infobae ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A passenger van collides with another vehicle in Naawan , Misamis Oriental , Philippines , killing eight people who have attended a police training session. (Rappler) 
 International relations 
 
 Armenia Turkey relations , Humanitarian response to the 2023 Turkey Syria earthquake 
 The Alican border crossing between Armenia and Turkey briefly reopens to allow the passage of humanitarian aid following the Turkey Syria earthquake for the first time since 1988. (AFP via Al Arabiya) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Camp Evangelista shooting 
 Four soldiers are killed and another is critically injured by a fellow soldier during a mass shooting at a barracks in Cagayan de Oro , Northern Mindanao , Philippines . The perpetrator is shot dead. (Rappler) 
 Murder of Brianna Ghey 
 A 16-year-old British transgender girl, is murdered in a premeditated attack by Scarlett Jenkinson and Eddie Ratcliffe. After being lured into Culcheth Linear Park by Jenkinson, Ghey is fatally stabbed. (The Guardian) 
 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Moldovan President Maia Sandu names pro- European Union academic Dorin Recean as the next Prime Minister of Moldova . (Politico) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 FIFA Club World Cup 
 In association football , Spanish club Real Madrid wins a record fifth FIFA Club World Cup title and eighth club world championship after defeating Saudi Arabian club Al Hilal 5 3 in the 2022 FIFA Club World Cup final at the Prince Moulay Abdellah Stadium in Rabat , Morocco . With eight goals, the match was the highest scoring final in Club World Cup history. (Reuters via The Guardian ) 
 Month February 2023 Previous day February 10 Next day February 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_February_11&oldid=1237752921 "