
 
 
 November 21, 2022 ( 2022-11-21 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kurdish Turkish conflict 
 Spillover of the Syrian civil war 
 A rocket attack on the Turkish border town of Karkam , kills three people, including a child. Interior Minister S leyman Soylu blames Kurdish militants in Syria and vows a "strong response". Kurdish groups have denied being behind the attack. (DW) 
 A Turkish soldier is killed and seven police officers are injured after the Bab al-Hawa Border Crossing is shelled by suspected Kurdish militants. (ABC News) 
 Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdo an threatens to launch a ground operation in northern Syria and Iraqi Kurdistan in response to the rocket attacks on Turkish territory. (France 24) 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 Two people are killed in a bombing in Kabul , Afghanistan . (Reuters) 
 Three people are killed and 22 others are injured after an ambush on a major highway in Central Equatoria , South Sudan . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 West Java earthquake 
 A 5.6-magnitude earthquake kills at least 310 people and injures over 2,000 others in West Java , Indonesia . (RT ) 
 2022 Anyang factory fire 
 At least 38 people are killed and two others are injured by a fire at a factory in Anyang , Henan , China . Local officials report evidence of electric resistance welding violating workplace safety standards as the likely cause of the fire. (AFP via NDTV) 
 A Piper PA-31 crashes into a residential area in the Bel n Rosales, Medell n , Colombia , killing the eight people on board. (El Tiempo) 
 One person is killed and 16 others are injured when a vehicle crashes into an Apple Store in Hingham, Massachusetts , United States . (BBC News) 
 Twelve people are injured in an explosion at a school in Sydney , New South Wales , Australia . (OneNews) 
 International relations 
 
 France Mali relations , Mali War 
 The Assimi Go ta -led military junta prohibits the operation of France -supported NGOs in Mali to reciprocate the French government 's suspension of development aid for the West African country due to its involvement with Russia 's Wagner Group in the war. (AFP via Al Arabiya) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A court in Tel Aviv rules that former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert committed defamation against the family of prime minister-designate Benjamin Netanyahu by claiming that members of Netanyahu's family are mentally ill and orders Olmert to pay $ 18,000. (BBC News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Artemis program 
 Artemis 1 
 NASA 's Orion spacecraft performs a flyby of the Moon , coming within 130 kilometres (81 mi) of the lunar surface before entering into a lunar orbit . (BBC News) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 FIFA World Cup controversies 
 The Iranian team chooses not to sing the Iranian national anthem prior to a match against England amid ongoing civil unrest in Iran . (Reuters) 
 Month November 2022 Previous day November 20 Next day November 22 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_November_21&oldid=1123858747 "