
 
 
 March 10, 2023 ( 2023-03-10 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 A Palestinian man is shot dead by an Israeli settler near a farm in Karnei Shomron , in the West Bank . The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) claims that the Palestinian man was armed at the time. (Al Jazeera) 
 Kivu conflict 
 Angola announces that it will deploy troops to the Democratic Republic of the Congo , following the failure of a ceasefire between government forces and M23 rebels in North Kivu . (BBC News) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Prince Edward is named as the new Duke of Edinburgh by King Charles III . The title was previously held by his father, Prince Philip . (BBC News) 
 Business and economy 
 
 March 2023 United States bank failures 
 Collapse of Silicon Valley Bank 
 American commercial bank Silicon Valley Bank is forcibly shut down by regulators for the U.S. state of California , and its assets controlled by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , after the bank failed to raise enough capital and a subsequent bank run occurred. With assets totalling US$ 209 billion, the bank's closure is the second-largest bank failure in American history . (CNN) ( The Independent ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Ten people are killed and nine others are missing after a tractor-trolley falls into a canal in Dera Ghazi Khan District , Punjab , Pakistan . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Iran Saudi Arabia relations 
 Iran and Saudi Arabia agree to resume diplomatic relations and reopen their embassies within the next two months, following diplomatic talks in Beijing brokered by China . (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Corruption in Malaysia 
 Former prime minister Muhyiddin Yassin is charged with corruption and abuse of power by the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission over a COVID-19 subsidy programme. (CNA) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 People's Republic of China presidential election 
 Xi Jinping is re-elected to a third term as president . ( The Guardian ) 
 Month March 2023 Previous day March 9 Next day March 11 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_March_10&oldid=1144593987 "