
 
 
 February 8, 2025 ( 2025-02-08 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 2025 Gaza war ceasefire , Gaza war hostage crisis 
 Three more Israeli hostages are freed by Hamas as part of the January 19 ceasefire deal. ( Saudi Gazette ) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Hezbollah Syria clashes 
 Four people are killed in border clashes between Syrian Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham and Lebanese clans. (Al-Monitor) 
 Afghan conflict 
 Republican insurgency in Afghanistan 
 The Afghanistan Freedom Front claims responsibility for a attack on a Taliban convoy in the Afghanistan province of Takhar , killing three people and injuring two. (Afghanistan International) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Esc rcega bus crash 
 At least 41 people are killed when a bus collides with a semi-trailer truck in Esc rcega , Campeche , Mexico . (Noticieros Televisa) (Reuters) 
 A 7.6 magnitude earthquake strikes the Caribbean Sea southwest of the Cayman Islands . (CNN) 
 International relations 
 
 Baltic states synchronization with CESA 
 Estonia , Latvia , and Lithuania disconnect from the IPS/UPS synchronous transmission grid in order to synchronize with the Continental Europe grid . (BBC News) 
 Democratic Republic of the Congo Rwanda conflict 
 A crisis summit is held involving the regional blocs SADC and the EAC , along with Rwandan President Paul Kagame . The DR Congo is represented by Prime Minister Judith Suminwa , while President F lix Tshisekedi attends virtually. The blocs call for a ceasefire and negotiations involving the M23 movement , while the Congolese do not comment. (BBC News) (CNN) 
 United States and the International Criminal Court , Executive orders in the second presidency of Donald Trump 
 International Criminal Court Prosecutor Karim Ahmad Khan becomes the first person to have economic and travel sanctions placed on him by the U.S. government following an executive order signed by U.S. President Donald Trump intended to target the war crimes tribunal over investigations of U.S. citizens or allies. ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 A new government is formed in Lebanon , with former International Court of Justice president Nawaf Salam as the new prime minister , following two years of the country under a caretaker government . (AP) 
 Month February 2025 Previous day February 7 Next day February 9 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_February_8&oldid=1275128304 "