
 
 
 September 18, 2023 ( 2023-09-18 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 War in Sudan 
 The Greater Nile Petroleum Oil Company Tower in Khartoum suffers heavy fire damage during clashes between the Sudanese Armed Forces and Rapid Support Forces . (NOS) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Twenty-four people are killed and 21 more injured after a bus plunges in to a ravine in the Andes mountains , Peru . (BBC News) 
 Nine Egyptian military personnel are killed or injured when a transport truck carrying ammunition overturns in Sharqia Governorate , Egypt . ( Al Ahram ) 
 One person is killed and another is injured by a magnitude 5.1 earthquake near Marradi , Tuscany , Italy . (Il Resto del Carlino) 
 International relations 
 
 2023 Canada India diplomatic crisis 
 Canada expels a top Indian diplomat after Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says there are credible allegations linking the government of India to the assassination of Hardeep Singh Nijjar , a Sikh Khalistani activist and naturalised Canadian citizen shot to death outside a Sikh temple in Surrey, British Columbia , in June. (AP) (CNN) 
 Foreign relations of Russia 
 Russia announces that it will withdraw from the Barents Euro-Arctic Council , citing a lack of cooperation between the members of the council. (Bloomberg) 
 Iran United States relations 
 A prisoner swap takes place between Iran and the United States , resulting in the release of five prisoners from each country. Under the terms of the swap, Iran will also gain access to six billion dollars frozen in South Korean bank accounts. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Hunter Biden , son of President of the United States Joe Biden , sues the Internal Revenue Service , alleging unlawful disclosure of his taxes by whistle-blowers who work for the agency. (Reuters) 
 Three people are taken to hospital after a mass stabbing at the Australian National University in Canberra . The attacker has been detained. (ABC News Australia) 
 Philippine Senator Risa Hontiveros in a privilege speech accuses the Socorro Bayanihan Services , a civic organization based in the island town of Socorro in Surigao del Norte , as being a cult which commits sexual violence and forces marriage on its members including minors. (Al Jazeera) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 17 Next day September 19 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_18&oldid=1176537466 "