
 
 
 May 7, 2025 ( 2025-05-07 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2025 India Pakistan standoff 
 2025 India Pakistan conflict 
 Indian airstrikes impact multiple locations in Pakistan and Pakistan-administered Kashmir , killing at least 8 people. (Reuters) ( India Today ) 
 Pakistan launches retaliatory strikes into India and Indian-administered Kashmir , and claims to have destroyed five Indian fighter jets. Three civilians are killed. ( The Express Tribune ) (Al Jazeera) 
 Pakistani prime minister Shehbaz Sharif declares the Indian attacks to be an act of war and vows further retaliation. (ABC News) 
 A state of emergency is declared in Pakistan's Punjab province following the airstrikes, with all schools in the region being closed. Hospitals and emergency services are placed on high alert. ( The Express Tribune ) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip 
 According to Hamas officials, Israeli airstrikes kill at least 92 Palestinians , including women, children, and two journalists , and wound at least 86 others. (AP) 
 Palestinian political violence 
 Four people are injured, at least two seriously, in a drive-by shooting at a car at the Reihan crossing in the West Bank . (YNet) ( Times of Israel ) ( Arutz Sheva ) 
 One person is injured in an attempted car ramming and stabbing in Mount Hebron in the West Bank . (YNet) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The Walt Disney Company announces plans to open its seventh theme park in Abu Dhabi , United Arab Emirates , their first in the Middle East . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Eleven kindergarten teachers are killed in a collision between a minibus and dump truck in Purworejo Regency , Central Java , Indonesia . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A woman is decapitated and a security guard is critically injured in a axe mass stabbing attack by a 22-year-old Polish citizen on the campus of University of Warsaw at an auditorium in Warsaw , Poland . A day of mourning is declared. (Reuters) (BBC News) 
 One student is killed and two others are injured in a mass stabbing attack outside the entrance of Santa Ana High School in Orange County , California , United States. (KTLA-TV) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 papal conclave 
 A total of 133 cardinal electors begin the process of electing a new pope following the death of Pope Francis . ( The Guardian ) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 6 Next day May 8 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_7&oldid=1293273808 "