
 
 
 May 17, 2023 ( 2023-05-17 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Southern Ukraine campaign 
 Russian forces shell Ukrainian-held areas of Kherson Oblast , killing at least five civilians , including a child, while 17 others are reportedly injured. (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Emilia-Romagna floods 
 Eight people are killed in Forl Cesena , Ravenna and Bologna , and 20,000 are evacuated during heavy floods in the region of Emilia-Romagna , Italy . Twenty-three rivers have overflowed their banks across the region. (AP) 
 The 2023 Emilia Romagna Grand Prix , which was scheduled to be held at the Autodromo Internazionale Enzo e Dino Ferrari in Imola from May 19 21, is cancelled because of the floods. (BBC News) 
 Lu Peng Yuan Yu sinking 
 The Chinese government reports that the fishing vessel Lu Peng Yuan Yu 028 capsized in the central Indian Ocean on Tuesday. China and other countries are conducting search operations for 39 sailors, including Chinese , Indonesian , and Filipino nationals. (AP via NBC News) (DW) 
 Health and environment 
 
 According to the World Meteorological Organization , the global temperature will temporarily pass the threshold of 1.5 C above preindustrial levels, with a likelihood of 66%, by the year 2027, due to a combination of climate change and El Ni o . (BBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 France Ukraine relations 
 The French Senate votes to recognize the 1932 Holodomor famine as a " genocide " of Ukrainians . (Interfax) (Al Jazeera) 
 Iran Russia relations 
 Russian president Vladimir Putin signs an investment program deal that will make an investment of 1.6 billion euros in Iranian railroad projects, which are expected to begin operation within 48 months. (Tasnim) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Censorship of TikTok , Restrictions on TikTok in the United States 
 Montana Assembly Bill 419 
 Montana Governor Greg Gianforte signs a bill banning TikTok , making Montana the first U.S. state to ban the Chinese -owned social media app. (Reuters) 
 Capital punishment in Thailand 
 A court in Thailand sentences the former mayor of Wang Wiset district to death for the murder of an activist in May 2021. The hitman received a sentence of life imprisonment . ( The Thaiger ) 
 Siege of Nueva Concepci n 
 Salvadoran President Nayib Bukele deploys 5,000 soldiers and 500 police officers to the northwestern town of Nueva Concepci n in order to arrest suspects in connection with the killing of a policeman on Tuesday. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Ecuadorian political crisis 
 Amid ongoing impeachment proceedings, Ecuadorian president Guillermo Lasso uses the muerte cruzada provision of the Constitution to dissolve the National Assembly . Fresh presidential and legislative elections will be held within 97 days, during which time Lasso will be able to rule by decree. (BBC News) 
 Month May 2023 Previous day May 16 Next day May 18 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_May_17&oldid=1180647469 "