
 
 
 May 31, 2024 ( 2024-05-31 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks in Russia during the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukraine launches missile and drone strikes across Krasnodar Krai , Russia , injuring two people and damaging several oil refineries . (Reuters) 
 Kharkiv strikes 
 At least three people are killed and 16 others are injured when Russian missiles hit civilian infrastructure in Kharkiv . (Reuters) 
 Treatment of prisoners of war in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukraine and Russia announce their first exchange of prisoners of war in nearly four months, with 150 people freed following negotiations mediated by the United Arab Emirates . (Reuters) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 30 May 2024 Yemen strikes 
 The death toll from yesterday's U.S. Navy and British Navy airstrikes in Yemen increases to 16 with 35 others injured. (AP) 
 The Houthi Supreme Political Council states that it launched an attack on the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower , although American officials deny this claim. ( The Independent ) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Seven soldiers are killed and 28 others are injured in an offensive by the Rapid Support Forces near Khartoum , Sudan . (Sudan Tribune) 
 2024 Mannheim stabbing 
 A man with a knife stabs several people at an anti-Muslim rally in Mannheim , Baden-W rttemberg , Germany including two policemen , including one in the neck, before being injured by a bullet. (Reuters) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 A medic is killed and another is injured in an Israeli airstrike against an ambulance in Naqoura , Lebanon . (Al Jazeera) 
 International relations 
 
 France Israel relations 
 France bans Israeli defense firms from exhibiting at the Eurosatory weapons expo convention. (Al Jazeera) 
 China United States relations 
 At the 2024 Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore , U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin meets with Chinese Minister of National Defense Dong Jun , with the two agreeing to resume military-to-military communication between the two countries. (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Corruption in Zambia 
 Former First Lady of Zambia Esther Lungu is arrested on fraud charges. (BBC News) 
 Canadian serial killer Robert Pickton dies in prison after being attacked by another inmate earlier this month. (AP) 
 French security services arrest a Chechen teenager suspected of plotting a islamist-inspired ambush on a football game during the Summer Olympics . ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Israel Hamas war protests in the United States 
 Pro- Palestinian protesters occupy parts of the Brooklyn Museum in New York City , New York , U.S. (Reuters) 
 Month May 2024 Previous day May 30 Next day June 1 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_May_31&oldid=1243891911 "