
 
 
 November 4, 2024 ( 2024-11-04 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip , Attacks on health facilities during the Gaza war 
 Kamal Adwan Hospital sieges 
 At least twelve Palestinians are killed in Israeli attacks across the Gaza Strip , including seven at the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia , North Gaza Governorate . (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 Israeli secret document leak scandal 
 Israel Police arrest a top aide to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu after opponents accused the aide of leaking allegedly false classified intelligence to prevent a potential Gaza ceasefire and hostage deal . (CNN) (BBC News) ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 At least three people are killed in an Israeli attack on residential buildings in Ghazieh and Sidon , Lebanon . (Al Jazeera) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2024 Kursk offensive 
 Ukraine says that its forces have engaged North Korean troops for the first time in Kursk Oblast , Russia . ( The Independent ) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The Most Mysterious Song on the Internet , an unidentified song recorded from a German Norddeutscher Rundfunk station in 1984, is identified as "Subways of Your Mind" by the band FEX . (404 Media) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Almora bus accident 
 At least 36 people are killed and 27 others are injured when a bus plunges into a gorge near Marchula , Uttarakhand , India . ( The Indian Express ) (ABC News) 
 At least ten people are killed in the eruption of Mount Lewotobi Lakilaki in Flores , Indonesia . (Al Jazeera) 
 International relations 
 
 Indonesia Russia relations 
 The Indonesian Navy and the Russian Navy begin their first ever joint military exercise in the Java Sea . (DW) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Women's rights in Iran 
 The science and research girl 
 Amnesty International demands the release of Iranian university student Ahoo Daryaei , who was arrested after stripping to her underwear and marching through the Islamic Azad University campus in Tehran , Iran, on Saturday. (Sky News) 
 Four teenagers are injured, two critically, in a fight involving an axe on a RER train at the Ozoir-la-Ferri re station in Seine-et-Marne , France . The main suspect is later arrested at his home. ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Novi Sad railway station canopy collapse 
 Serbian Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure Goran Vesi resigns and accepts responsibility for the deadly canopy collapse at the Novi Sad railway station on Friday. (DW) 
 Month November 2024 Previous day November 3 Next day November 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_November_4&oldid=1272918786 "