
 
 
 June 16, 2024 ( 2024-06-16 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Humanitarian aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Norway announces that it will give Ukraine 1.1 billion kroner (US$103 million) to help repair its energy infrastructure and secure the country's electricity supply before the winter. ( Le Monde ) 
 Peace negotiations in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 The two-day Global Peace Summit , dedicated to the discussion of " Ukraine's Peace Formula ", ends at the B rgenstock Resort in Switzerland . (CNN) 
 Russia claims that it captured the village of Zahirne in Zaporizhzhia Oblast , Ukraine. ( Barron's ) 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Gaza humanitarian crisis 
 Israel's military announces that it will begin "tactical pauses" in combat along roads in Southern Gaza during the daytime in order to allow humanitarian aid trucks to travel through the Kerem Shalom crossing into Gaza with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu calling the pauses "unacceptable". (AP) 
 Rostov-on-Don pre-trial detention center hostage crisis 
 Previously-detained inmates with alleged links to the Islamic State take two employees hostage in a pre-trial detention center in Rostov-on-Don , Russia . Russian national guards storm the center, killing all six hostage takers. ( The Washington Post ) (AP) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 77th Tony Awards 
 At the 2024 Tony Awards , Stereophonic wins Best Play and The Outsiders wins Best Musical . (CBS News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Ba os landslide 
 At least six people are killed in a landslide caused by heavy rainfall that struck a highway in Ba os in central Ecuador , with 30 other people reported missing. (AP) 
 2024 California wildfires 
 Around 1,200 people are evacuated from the Hungry Valley area near Los Angeles , California , United States , as the Post Fire spreads through the dry mountains near Interstate 5 . (AP) 
 Extreme heat during Hajj 
 At least 19 Jordanian and Iranian pilgrims are killed during the hajj in Saudi Arabia , with at least 14 dying from heat stroke . ( Barron's ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Seven people are injured and one other person is injured while running away in a shooting at a pop-up party in Methuen, Massachusetts , United States. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Liechtenstein referendums 
 Liechtensteiners vote 53.7% positively on a referendum to build a new state hospital . (Liechtenstein Institut) 
 LGBT rights in Ukraine 
 Hundreds of LGBTQ+ Ukrainian Armed Forces troops and supporters march in central Kyiv to demand legal reforms for more same-sex partnership rights despite opposition from the Ukrainian Orthodox Church as well as from counter-protesters. (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 FIA World Endurance Championship 
 2024 24 Hours of Le Mans 
 In endurance racing , the AF Corse Ferrari team wins the 24 Hours of Le Mans for the second consecutive year with drivers Antonio Fuoco , Miguel Molina , and Nicklas Nielsen . (The Race) 
 2024 UFL season 
 In American football , the Birmingham Stallions defeat the San Antonio Brahmas to win the inaugural UFL championship . Stallions quarterback Adrian Martinez is named the Most Valuable Player. (Fox Sports) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 15 Next day June 17 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_16&oldid=1262329056 "