
 
 
 September 10, 2022 ( 2022-09-10 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Ukrainian Kharkiv counteroffensive 
 Ukrainian troops retake the cities of Balakliia , Kupiansk , and Izium from Russian occupation . The Russian Defence Ministry confirms the withdrawal of troops from several towns in Kharkiv Oblast in order to allow its forces "to regroup" and reinforce the Donbas . (BBC News) ( Mirror ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Five people are killed when their boat is hit by a whale and capsizes near Kaik ura , New Zealand . (Reuters) 
 Three people are killed and five others are injured when a Black Hawk helicopter crashes during a Taliban training exercise in Kabul , Afghanistan . (Reuters) 
 Eighteen people are killed when a bus and a tanker truck collide and cause an explosion in Tamaulipas , Mexico . (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 The Kurdish administration in Syria , the Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria , requests help from the World Health Organization to contain a cholera outbreak which has killed three people in the region. (Al Arabiya) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Proclamation of accession of Charles III 
 Charles Philip Arthur George is proclaimed King of the United Kingdom as Charles III by the Accession Council at St James's Palace . (BBC News) 
 Charles Philip Arthur George is proclaimed King of Canada as Charles III by the Chief Herald of Canada at Rideau Hall . ( Globe and Mail ) 
 Charles Philip Arthur George is proclaimed King of Australia as Charles III by the Governor-General of Australia David Hurley at Government House in Canberra . (ABC News) 
 Charles Philip Arthur George is proclaimed King of New Zealand as Charles III by the Herald of Arms at the New Zealand Parliament Buildings . (Radio New Zealand) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 9 Next day September 11 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_10&oldid=1159803601 "