
 
 
 March 25, 2023 ( 2023-03-25 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Yemeni Civil War 
 Three Yemeni soldiers are killed and several others are injured by a Houthi drone attack on a convoy carrying government officials, including Yemen 's defense minister. (Xinhua) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Pokhran missile incident 
 Three surface-to-air missiles are misfired by the Indian Army during an exercise in the Pokhran ranges in the western Jaisalmer district of Rajasthan , India . There are no reports of damage or casualties. (Dawn) 
 Tornado outbreak of March 24 25, 2023 
 A deadly tornado outbreak hits Mississippi , United States , killing at least 26 people, devastating several rural towns, and prompting Governor Tate Reeves to declare a state of emergency , while President Joe Biden promises federal assistance. (BBC News) 
 Three people are killed by heavy snow and rainfall in Afghanistan . (AP) 
 One person is killed and three others are injured in a train crash at Gala i railway station in Romania . (Digi24) 
 International relations 
 
 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
 2022 2023 blockade of the Republic of Artsakh 
 The Ministry of Defence in Russia accuses Azerbaijan of violating the 2020 ceasefire agreement after a unit of the Azerbaijani Armed Forces crosses the Line of Contact in Shushi Province , Artsakh , and seizes control of dirt roads near the Lachin corridor . (France 24) 
 Russia and weapons of mass destruction , Belarus Russia relations 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin announces that Russia will station tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus by July. The nuclear missiles will be operated by Russian forces . It will be the first time that Russian nuclear weapons have been deployed abroad since 1996. (BBC News) (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Yevgeny Prigozhin , leader of the Wagner Group , says that more than 5,000 prisoners have been pardoned following the completion of their contracts in Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 Corruption in Venezuela 
 Twenty-one Venezuelan government officials and businessmen are arrested in an anti- corruption probe targeting state oil company PDVSA and cryptocurrency regulator Sunacrip. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 New South Wales state election 
 Labor is declared the winner after Chris Minns wins at least 47 seats. Premier Dominic Perrottet concedes defeat and resigns as Liberal leader. (Reuters) (Bloomberg) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Asteroid 2023 DZ2 makes a close pass between the Earth and the Moon. (BBC) (Al Jazeera) 
 The einstein problem is solved by a single shape that tiles a plane without repeating . (Science News) (New Scientist) 
 Month March 2023 Previous day March 24 Next day March 26 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_March_25&oldid=1192162478 "