
 
 
 October 12, 2024 ( 2024-10-12 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 Israel 's military orders the residents of 23 villages in southern Lebanon to evacuate to areas north of the Awali River . (Reuters) 
 The UNIFIL headquarters in Naqoura , Lebanon, is hit by an Israeli airstrike. (CTV News) (BBC News) 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 A family of eight is killed in an Israeli airstrike on a home at the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza Strip . (Morning Star) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukrainian conscription crisis 
 Local media outlets report that Ukrainian military recruitment officers raided shopping centers, bars, restaurants, and a large concert venue across several Ukrainian cities including Kyiv , Dnipro , and Kharkiv to detain men not in compliance with conscription orders. (AP) 
 Colombian conflict 
 The National Army of Colombia re-enters the corregimiento of El Plateado in Argelia , Cauca Department , Colombia , in an attempt to clear the corregimiento of FARC dissidents . ( El Tiempo ) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 At least eleven people are killed and eight others are injured in tribal clashes in Kurram District , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A speedboat explodes at a port in Taliabu Island Regency , North Maluku , Indonesia , killing six people, including Benny Laos , a candidate for Governor of North Maluku in the upcoming election , and Regional House of Representatives member Ester Tantri. (CNN Indonesia) (CNBC Indonesia) 
 Four people are killed and five others are injured in a gas tank explosion and fire at a gas station in Grozny , Russia . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 United States presidential election 
 Security incidents involving Donald Trump 
 A man is arrested outside former president Donald Trump 's rally in Coachella , California , United States , with loaded firearms, a fake license plate, and several passports, in what is believed to have been an assassination attempt on Trump, according to the Riverside County sheriff. (Reuters) 
 Voter registration in the United States 
 The United States Justice Department sues the state of Virginia for removing voters from voter registration less than 90 days before Election Day on November 5. (Al Jazeera) 
 Belarus European Union border crisis , Human rights in Poland 
 As a response to Germany tightening border controls and following a call for EU-wide solutions by its Interior Minister Nancy Faeser , Prime Minister of Poland Donald Tusk issues a request to the European Union to accept a provisional suspension of migrants' right to asylum in order to control irregular immigration from Belarus , which human rights activists condemn as unconstitutional. (Reuters) (Euronews) 
 Science and technology 
 
 A 52nd Mersenne prime is discovered by a participant of the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search , six years after the last new Mersenne prime was discovered in 2018. The prime number is 41,024,320 digits in length, making it the largest known prime number . (Mersenne.org) 
 Month October 2024 Previous day October 11 Next day October 13 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_October_12&oldid=1273131145 "