
 
 
 October 17, 2024 ( 2024-10-17 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Killing of Yahya Sinwar 
 The Israeli military announces that Yahya Sinwar , the de facto leader of Hamas and the mastermind of the October 7 attack , was killed along with two other militants in a shootout with Israeli forces in Rafah Governorate , Gaza . (AzerNews) (CNN) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 Five Israeli soldiers from the Golani Brigade are killed in fighting with Hezbollah forces in southern Lebanon . IDF Spokesman Daniel Hagari says several Hezbollah operatives have been captured during the clashes. ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 2024 missile strikes in Yemen 
 U.S. B-2 Spirit stealth bombers carry out raids on underground bunkers used by the Houthis in Sanaa Governorate , Yemen . U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin says that five underground facilities were targeted in the strikes. (AP) 
 Colombian conflict 
 FARC dissidents open fire against a prison convoy in Cauca Department , Colombia , killing two prison guards and serial killer Manuel Octavio Berm dez . Six others are wounded. (Infobae) 
 Somali Civil War 
 A suicide bombing at a restaurant in Mogadishu , Somalia , kills at least seven people and injures at least six others. Islamic terrorist group al-Shabaab claims responsibility for the attack. (AL24 News) (Daily Sabah) 
 International relations 
 
 South Africa Taiwan relations 
 The Government of South Africa orders Taiwan to relocate its representative office from the South African capital of Pretoria , allegedly due to pressure from China . (Focus Taiwan) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A court in Vietnam sentences tycoon Tr ng M Lan to life in prison for fraud, in addition to a death sentence that Lan received in April for embezzlement. (Radio Free Asia) 
 A court in Bangladesh orders the arrest of former prime minister Sheikh Hasina and 45 others for crimes against humanity . Hasina is in exile in India . (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 The Senate of Kenya convicts Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua on 5 out of 11 charges, thereby removing him from office. (BBC News) 
 Month October 2024 Previous day October 16 Next day October 18 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_October_17&oldid=1290021205 "