
 
 
 September 15, 2023 ( 2023-09-15 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukraine claims that it has recaptured the village of Andriivka , near Bakhmut , in Donetsk Oblast . Russia denied the claim and said its forces remained in control of village. (Al Jazeera) (AP) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2023 United Auto Workers strike 
 The United Auto Workers announce that they have gone on strike following failed negotiations. (AP) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Hungary , Poland , and Slovakia impose national import bans on 24 Ukrainian agricultural products, including grains, vegetables, meat products, and honey. (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Foreign relations of Burkina Faso , Foreign relations of France 
 The military government of Burkina Faso orders the French embassy 's defense attach to leave the country due to subversive behavior. (Al Arabiya) 
 France Niger relations 
 President of France Emmanuel Macron says that French ambassador to Niger Sylvain Itt and other diplomats are being held hostage at the French embassy in Niamey , Niger . (CNN) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko proposes a three-way alliance between Belarus , Russia , and North Korea during a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Sochi , Russia. (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 The U.S. Department of Agriculture s Food Safety and Inspection Service reports that the Wisconsin -based Green Bay Dressed Beef has recalled over 58,000 ground beef products in several states over concerns of E. coli contamination . (FSN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Afghan conflict 
 United States invasion of Afghanistan 
 The U.S. government warns a Virginia judge that allowing a United States Marine to keep an Afghan war orphan risks violating international law and could be viewed as endorsing international child abduction . (AP) 
 Human rights in Kuwait 
 Kuwait University agrees to impose gender segregation in classrooms in line with a recent agreement between Kuwaiti MP Mohammed Haif al-Mutairi, who chairs the Committee for the Promotion of Values, and the Kuwaiti Minister of Education. ( The New Arab ) 
 Cash-for-visa scandal 
 The Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs dismisses its legal chief and cancels all contracts to outsource visa applications after seven people are charged in a visas-for-cash scandal. (Reuters) 
 The Wagner Group is designated as a terrorist organization by the United Kingdom . (ABC News) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 14 Next day September 16 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_15&oldid=1176324137 "