
 
 
 February 7, 2024 ( 2024-02-07 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Middle Eastern crisis (2023 present) 
 Attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq, Jordan, and Syria (2023 present) 
 February 2024 United States airstrikes in Iraq and Syria 
 A USAF MQ-9 Reaper kills three Kata'ib Hezbollah militants in a precision airstrike using a Hellfire missile , including a high ranking commander, in Baghdad , Iraq . (AP) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 2024 Balochistan bombings 
 Two bombings outside electoral offices in Balochistan , Pakistan , ahead of tomorrow's general election , kill at least 30 people and injure dozens more. The Islamic State claims responsibility for both attacks. (AP) 
 Pakistan closes all border crossings with Afghanistan until further notice in response to the attacks. (Pajhwok) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russian forces launch a wave of missile and drone strikes across Ukraine , killing at least five civilians and injuring 11 others, including two in Kyiv . (BBC News) 
 Southern Thailand insurgency 
 The Thai government and Muslim separatists in the country 's south agree to begin a Malaysian -brokered peace process to end an insurgency which began in 2004. (AP) 
 2024 Ecuadorian conflict 
 Naranjal city councilwoman Diana Carnero is shot and killed by unknown gunmen immediately following a city council meeting. (El Universo) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Death and state funeral of Sebasti n Pi era 
 It is announced that former Chilean president Sebasti n Pi era will receive a state funeral with the wake lasting until February 9. (Emol) 
 Five United States Marines are missing after a Sikorsky CH-53E Super Stallion helicopter crashes in San Diego County , California , United States . (NBC News) 
 The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia confirms that eight people have been killed and another is missing, following a landslide in Baghdati , Imereti , on February 6, the same day that two more have also been killed in separate events in Adjara . (Agenda.ge) (RFE/RL Georgia) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Nicaragua grants political asylum to former Panamanian president Ricardo Martinelli after he requests protection at the Nicaraguan embassy in Panama City , Panama . (Reuters) 
 2024 East Lansdowne shooting 
 A man commits a familicide in Pennsylvania , United States in which he kills his family of five before shooting at police injuring two officers before committing suicide. The shooter was identified as 43-year-old Canh Le. (GVA) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Azerbaijani presidential election 
 President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev is re-elected for a fifth term in office. (Reuters) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 6 Next day February 8 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_7&oldid=1270798943 "