
 
 
 February 10, 2024 ( 2024-02-10 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 The IDF claims to have discovered a Hamas data center under UNRWA 's Gaza Strip headquarters. (Times of Israel) 
 Middle Eastern crisis (2023 present) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 Seventeen Houthi fighters are killed during airstrikes launched by the United States and the United Kingdom in Yemen . (Al Jazeera) 
 Kivu conflict 
 M23 offensive 
 Tens of thousands of people flee to Goma , the capital of the DR Congo 's North Kivu province, as M23 rebels advance towards the city. (BBC News) 
 Somali civil war 
 Four Emirati soldiers and a Bahraini military officer are killed, while ten other people are injured, when a soldier opens fire at a military base in Mogadishu , Somalia , before being killed in the ensuing shootout . Al-Shabaab claims responsibility. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 France 's EDF shuts down two nuclear reactors due to a fire at the Chinon Nuclear Power Plant . (Reuters) 
 A Eurocopter EC130 helicopter crashes near Nipton , California , United States , killing all the six people on board, including Nigerian banker Herbert Wigwe . (CBS News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 2024 Senegalese protests 
 Violent protests occur in Senegal following an announcement by President Macky Sall that presidential elections have been delayed from February 25 to December 15. (Sky News) 
 2024 Pakistani general election 
 Despite Imran Khan 's lead, Nawaz Sharif claims victory amid allegations of military -led rigging of the election. ( Time ) 
 President of Hungary Katalin Nov k resigns one week after news media revealed that she had pardoned a person who had been convicted of aiding in child sex abuse . (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 AFC Asian Cup 
 In association football , hosts Qatar win their second consecutive Asian Cup title after defeating Jordan 3 1 in the final . Akram Afif earns a hat-trick all scored from penalty kicks . (Reuters via The Guardian ) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 9 Next day February 11 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_10&oldid=1253347466 "