
 
 
 December 2, 2022 ( 2022-12-02 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 Two men disguised in burqas attack a mosque in Kabul while former Afghan prime minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar is inside. The attackers killed a civilian and injured two others before being shot dead by security guards . Hekmatyar was not injured in the attack. (ANInews) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Sheffield gas supply outage 
 A burst water main in the Stannington area of Sheffield , England , floods the local natural gas supply network, leaving thousands of properties without a gas supply. (BBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 2021 2022 global energy crisis 
 International sanctions during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Russian oil price cap 
 Australia , the European Union , and the G7 member states decide to impose a US$ 60-per-barrel price ceiling on Russian seaborne oil . (AP) 
 The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom adds Cuba , Nicaragua , and the Russian paramilitary organization Wagner Group to its blacklist of countries and organizations violating international religious freedom , signalling possible sanctions by the U.S. government . (AFP via France 24) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Russia Ukraine relations 
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy signs a decree that bans religious organizations with links to Russia and imposes personal sanctions against their representatives. Zelenskyy also announces that the Ukrainian government will draft a law banning churches affiliated with Russia, which he says is necessary in order to counter Russian government efforts to "weaken Ukraine from within." (AP) (Reuters) 
 The Indonesian parliament announces that it will pass a new Criminal Code to replace the current one, which dates back from its colonial era . (Reuters) 
 The United States Department of Justice announces that the Swedish - Swiss corporation ABB has acceded to a US$ 315-million fine for violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by extorting the South African state-owned public utility Eskom to secure government contracts from 2014 to 2017. (AFP via RFI) 
 Month December 2022 Previous day December 1 Next day December 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_December_2&oldid=1126592622 "