
 
 
 September 12, 2022 ( 2022-09-12 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Ukrainian Kharkiv counteroffensive 
 Ukrainian forces continue to recapture Russian-occupied territory in Kharkiv Oblast , saying that they have seized 20 more settlements in the last 24 hours, including Dvorichna , and also claim to have captured many Russian prisoners of war . (AP) 
 Battle of Donbas 
 The Ukrainian general staff reports that Russian troops abandoned the city of Svatove in Luhansk Oblast as Ukrainian forces advanced. (Reuters) 
 2022 Western Russia attacks 
 Multiple explosions are reported near the city of Taganrog in Rostov Oblast , Russia . (Meduza) (HalkTV) 
 More than 30 municipal deputies of Russian cities sign a petition calling for Russian President Vladimir Putin 's resignation amid substantial Ukrainian advances in the war. ( The Hill ) 
 Kurdish Turkish conflict 
 Operation Claw-Lock 
 Four Turkish soldiers are killed in clashes with PKK insurgents in Iraqi Kurdistan , according to the Turkish Defense Ministry . (Al Jazeera) 
 2022 Armenian-Azerbaijani clashes 
 Azerbaijan shells Armenian villages in the eastern region of the country. ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 Five people are killed during an attack on a senator's convoy in Anambra , Nigeria . (Reuters) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 A 1500 year old ancient Mayan settlement is uncovered in central Belize by archaeologists from the Belize Archaeological Institute and UIUC , dating from between 250 to 600 AD. (Heritage Daily) (Onet.pl) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A gunman kills two people, including a Toronto Police constable, and injures three others in Mississauga and Milton, Ontario , Canada , before police shoot him dead in Hamilton Cemetery . (CTV News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 The James Webb Space Telescope reveals its first photos of the Orion Nebula , which is located in the Orion constellation . (Phys.org) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 11 Next day September 13 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_12&oldid=1110458055 "