
 
 
 May 13, 2025 ( 2025-05-13 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 2025 Gaza European Hospital strikes 
 At least 28 people are killed in an Israeli air strike that struck the Gaza European Hospital , which the Israeli military claims had a Hamas command and control centre beneath the building. (BBC News) 
 Puntland counter-terrorism operations 
 Three Al-Shabaab fighters, including a senior commander, are killed in a coordinated operation by the Somali National Army in Jowle , Mudug , Puntland . (Garowe Online) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Microsoft Inc. abruptly lays off 6,000 people, 3% of its global workforce, citing workforce productivity . (AP) (GeekWire) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Russian wildfires 
 A state of emergency is declared in Buryatia , Far Eastern Federal District , Russia , as firefighters fight wildfires currently burning more than 53,000 hectares. ( The Moscow Times ) 
 Fourteen people are killed and four others are hospitalized after drinking toxic liquor in Amritsar , Punjab , India . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Syria United States relations 
 US President Donald Trump announces that the United States will lift all sanctions imposed on Syria under the previous regime of President Bashar al-Assad , and expresses willingness to work with the Syrian transitional government . (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Armed conflict for control of the favelas 
 Brazilian Military Police kill the main leader of the Terceiro Comando Puro , a drug trafficking criminal organization , and two other suspected members, in a shootout in the Mar favela in Rio de Janeiro . (AP) ( Seattle Post-Intelligencer ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Islamic State insurgency in Puntland 
 Puntland counter-terrorism operations 
 A spokesperson for the Puntland Security Force confirms that Puntland has acquired four military helicopters to support ongoing military operations against Islamic State militants in the region. (Garowe Online) 
 2025 Liberal Party of Australia leadership election 
 Sussan Ley is elected as the new leader of the Liberal Party of Australia following the party's defeat at Saturday's federal election . Ley is the first woman to hold the post. (Reuters) 
 2025 Malian protests , 2020 Malian coup d' tat 
 Malian interim president Assimi Go ta signs a decree dissolving all political parties and organizations and bans them from holding meetings following ongoing pro- democracy protests in the capital city Bamako . (AP) (Al Jazeera) 
 Prime Minister of Peru Gustavo Adrianz n resigns a day before a vote of censure against him over rising crime in Peru . (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 Major League Baseball 
 Commissioner of Baseball Rob Manfred announces that all deceased individuals on the permanent ineligible list will be reinstated, allowing players like Pete Rose and Shoeless Joe Jackson to be elected into the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum . (ESPN) 
 2024 25 Serie B 
 Multiple European and domestic title winners UC Sampdoria are relegated to the third tier of the Italian football league system for the first time in their 78 year history. ( ESPN ), ( BBC Sport ), ( The Guardian ) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 12 Next day May 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_13&oldid=1291085946 "