
 
 
 September 3, 2022 ( 2022-09-03 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Somali Civil War 
 Twenty people are killed in a mass shooting by al-Shabaab insurgents against vehicles transporting food supplies from Beledweyne to Mahas in the Hiran region . (AP) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Twenty-seven ancient artifacts housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City , United States , are seized by federal investigators under the suspicion that they were looted . The artifacts will be repatriated to Italy and Egypt next week. (CNN via MSN) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Illegal immigration to the United States 
 U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents and Mexican police find nine migrants dead in the Rio Grande after dozens of migrants attempt to cross into Eagle Pass , Texas , United States . At least 70 other migrants are rescued. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Aegean dispute 
 President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdo an accuses Greece of "arming" and "occupying" the demilitarized Aegean islands, with Minister of Foreign Affairs Mevl t avu o lu threatening to revoke recognition of Greek sovereignty over the islands if the alleged militarization is not halted. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Death and funeral of Mikhail Gorbachev 
 The funeral of former Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev is held in Moscow . ( The Guardian ) 
 2021 present global energy crisis 
 An estimated 70,000 people march in the Czech Republic 's capital city Prague demanding that the government do more to control soaring energy prices in the country and voicing opposition to the country's involvement in the Russo-Ukrainian War . The demonstration was organized by political groups including the Communist Party . (Reuters) 
 Science and technology 
 
 NASA suspends the inaugural launch of the Artemis 1 rocket for a second time, after a fuel leak causes a delay of more than two hours. (MSN) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 2 Next day September 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_3&oldid=1108542270 "