
 
 
 August 13, 2023 ( 2023-08-13 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Ethiopian civil conflict 
 War in Amhara 
 An Ethiopian Air Force airstrike kills 26 people in Finote Selam , Amhara Region , amid ongoing clashes between Fano militiamen and government forces . (BBC News) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 Balochistan Liberation Army gunmen ambush a convoy transporting Chinese engineers to the Gwadar Port in Balochistan , Pakistan . Two separatists are killed in the subsequent shootout . (AFP via VOA) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian forces strike Kherson Oblast , killing seven people, including an infant, and injuring 20 others. (Reuters) 
 One person is killed and seven others are injured in an attack at the Shah Cheragh mosque in Shiraz , Iran . (Reuters) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The Miss Universe and Miss Indonesia contests cut ties after six Miss Indonesia contestants allege sexual misconduct at the beauty pageant . ( The Guardian ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Hawaii wildfires 
 In the United States , Maui County officials announce that more than 93 people have died in the wildfires in Lahaina , Maui , Hawaii , making it the deadliest American wildfire since 1918, surpassing the death toll of the 2018 Camp Fire in California . ( Washington Examiner ) (People.com) 
 Hawaii Governor Josh Green says that the banyan tree in Lahaina was damaged by the wildfires, but has survived. ( The Messenger ) 
 Two restaurants in Lahaina, the Mala Ocean Tavern and Duckine, are reported to have survived the wildfires. The two restaurants confirmed this in a joint statement on Instagram , but also stated that they won't be able to open "any time soon". ( San Francisco Chronicle ) 
 Four people are killed and four others are injured in separate accidents involving lightning strikes in the Yemeni governorates of Al Bayda , Al Hudaydah , and Raymah . (Xinhua) 
 Three people are killed and eighteen others are injured in a fire at an apartment complex in Grasse , Alpes-Maritimes , France . (NOS) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Argentine primary elections 
 Argentines head to the polls to vote in the primaries before the October general election . (WION) 
 Libertarian Party candidate Javier Milei wins the primaries, with around a third of the votes. ( Financial Times ) 
 Month August 2023 Previous day August 12 Next day August 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_August_13&oldid=1170764798 "