
 
 
 January 12, 2025 ( 2025-01-12 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Gaza war hostage crisis 
 An Israeli security delegation arrives in Qatar for talks regarding a ceasefire deal and the release of Israeli hostages in Gaza . (Reuters) 
 Israel United States relations , Calls for a ceasefire during the Gaza war 
 Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and U.S. President Joe Biden discuss efforts to reach a deal to solve the hostage crisis as well as a ceasefire to end the war. ( USA Today ) 
 Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip 
 At least eight Palestinians are killed in Israeli airstrikes on areas of the Gaza Strip . (Xinhua) 
 Kivu conflict 
 M23 offensive 
 The Army of the Democratic Republic of the Congo says that over the days it has recaptured several towns that fell to M23 rebels and other armed groups in North Kivu and South Kivu provinces. (AP) 
 Nigerian bandit conflict 
 At least 40 people are killed during an attack by Boko Haram gunmen in Dumba, Borno State , Nigeria . (AP) 
 At least 16 civilians are killed in an airstrike conducted by the Nigerian Air Force in Zamfara State , apparently after being mistaken for criminal gangs. (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 California wildfires 
 January 2025 Southern California wildfires 
 California Governor Gavin Newsom states that the ongoing wildfires impacting Los Angeles County could become the worst natural disaster in American history "in terms of the scale and scope", amid current estimated damages of more than US$ 135 billion. ( The Independent ) (NBC News) 
 The death toll from the wildfires increases to 24. (BBC News) 
 Officials say that the Kenneth Fire has been contained. (KCAL-TV) 
 Ten people are killed and several others are injured after large floods engulf the city of Ipatinga in Minas Gerais , Brazil . (BBC) 
 Three people are killed and two others are injured in an avalanche in Trasquera , Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola , Italy . (Rai News) 
 At least 17 miners are trapped in a gold mine in La Libertad Department , Peru , after a group of illegal miners attacked the mine. (Xinhua) 
 Health and environment 
 
 HMPV seasonal outbreak in China 
 The Bangladeshi IEDCR reports the country's first case of HMPV in Bhairab , Dhaka Division , Bangladesh. ( New Age ) 
 International relations 
 
 Germany Syria relations 
 German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock pledges 50 million in food, emergency shelters, and medical care to Syria following talks with the Syrian transitional government in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia . (DW) 
 Foreign ministers and senior officers of Arab countries , the European Union , Turkey , the United Kingdom , and the United States hold a series of diplomatic meetings focused on Syria in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia . ( Saudi Gazette ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 25 Croatian presidential election 
 Croatians vote in the second round to elect the president between incumbent Zoran Milanovi and former science and education minister Dragan Primorac . ( The Dubrovnik Times ) ( Sarajevo Times ) 
 2025 Comorian parliamentary election 
 Voters in Comoros elect the 33 members of the Assembly of the Union . (Reuters) 
 Ilza Amado Vaz unexpectedly resigns as Prime Minister of S o Tom and Pr ncipe three days after being appointed Prime Minister by President Carlos Vila Nova . The ruling Independent Democratic Action party then proposes Adelino Pereira to replace Vaz, but Vila Nova appoints Am rico d'Oliveira dos Ramos . (Xinhua 1) , (Xinhua 2) 
 Month January 2025 Previous day January 11 Next day January 13 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_January_12&oldid=1283170143 "