
 
 
 November 18, 2023 ( 2023-11-18 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kivu conflict 
 M23 offensive 
 At least four civilians and three soldiers are killed, with 11 injured, in a mass shooting at a IDP camp in Nyiragongo , North Kivu , DRC , amid ongoing conflict between the army and M23 rebels. (AFP via New Vision ) 
 War in Sudan 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 The Jebel Aulia Bridge, part of the Jebel Aulia Dam complex, is destroyed amid heavy fighting in Jabal Awliya , although the dam itself remains intact. It is the second bridge in Khartoum to be destroyed in the past week. ( Sudan Tribune ) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Miss Universe 2023 
 Miss Nicaragua Sheynnis Palacios is crowned Miss Universe by her predecessor , R'Bonney Gabriel , marking the country 's first win in the pageant's history. (CNN) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Uttarakhand tunnel collapse 
 Efforts to rescue 40 workers trapped in a collapsed tunnel in Uttarakhand , India , are suspended due to concerns of further cave-ins . (AFP via Dawn ) 
 November 2023 Brazil heat wave 
 Death of Ana Clara Benevides 
 A woman dies at the first of American singer Taylor Swift 's concerts at the Est dio Ol mpico Nilton Santos in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , during a day when temperatures reached 39.1 C (102.4 F). Swift postpones her second concert in the city due to the heat. ( The Guardian ) (AFP via Manila Bulletin ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 France 's Horizons party suspends Loire-Atlantique Senator Jo l Guerriau following his arrest and formal charge for allegedly administering a date rape drug to MP Sandrine Josso , with the Independents caucus in the Senate also suspending him and initiating expulsion procedures. (AFP via The Straits Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Democratic Republic of the Congo general election 
 Four major Congolese opposition parties form a coalition to contest President F lix Tshisekedi in the upcoming election. Martin Fayulu 's party remains absent from the agreement. (AFP via The Citizen ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 SpaceX Starship Second Integrated Flight Test 
 American aerospace manufacturer SpaceX launches the second test flight of the Starship rocket, at Starbase in Texas , United States , reaching an altitude of 148 kilometres (92 mi). The Super Heavy booster explodes shortly after separation, with the second stage terminating itself eight minutes into the flight. (CNBC) (CNN) 
 Month November 2023 Previous day November 17 Next day November 19 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_November_18&oldid=1187028069 "