
 
 
 September 1, 2023 ( 2023-09-01 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2023 Sudan conflict 
 Siege of El Obeid 
 Sudanese Armed Forces capture El Obeid , pushing the Rapid Support Forces out of the city, although skirmishes continue on the outskirts of the city. (Dabanga Sudan) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 A Palestinian man is killed and several others are injured, a building is destroyed and ambulances are obstructed and shot at, during a raid by Israeli soldiers in Aqabah , in the occupied West Bank . (Al Jazeera) 
 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
 Armenia Azerbaijan border crisis 
 Armenia says that shelling by Azerbaijani forces in the town of Sotk killed four of its soldiers and injured another by striking its positions across the border using drones . (Reuters) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Deir ez-Zor clashes (2023) 
 Arab tribesmen briefly take control of two villages in Aleppo Governorate in order to support fellow tribesmen fighting the Syrian Democratic Forces in northeast Syria , as the battle enters its third day with at least 45 people killed. (Al Jazeera) 
 Nigerian bandit conflict 
 Gunmen kill nine people including seven in a mosque in Ikara Local Government Area in Nigeria 's Kaduna State as worshippers gathered for prayer . Two other injured people were taken to hospital for treatment. (Reuters) (Premium Times) 
 Western Sahara conflict 
 Five Polisario Front militants, including a leader, are killed during an airstrike by Morocco near Tindouf . The Sahrawi presidency declares three days of mourning . (Asharq Al-Awsat) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2022 2023 food crises 
 The Philippines imposes price ceilings on rice in order to counter increasing costs and alleged market manipulation , setting the maximum prices for regular-milled and well-milled rice, at 41 ( US$ 0.72) and 45 ($0.80) per kilogram, respectively. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Pacific typhoon season 
 Hong Kong raises its typhoon warning signal to level 10, the highest level, as Super Typhoon Saola approaches. Over 880,000 people in the Chinese provinces of Fujian and Guangdong have been evacuated. (AFP via France 24) 
 Eighteen people are killed and 13 are injured after two minibuses carrying mostly Iranian Shia pilgrims collide between Dujail and Samarra in Saladin Governorate , Iraq . (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Six people are killed when a train collides with a minibus at a railroad crossing in San Pedro de la Paz , B o-B o Region , Chile . (Xinhua) 
 Five people are killed when an outdoor lift cable snaps and falls into a ravine at a resort in Ubud , Bali , Indonesia . (DPA via The Star ) 
 Two people are killed and at least 12 others are injured in an explosion at a metal factory in Cabre va , S o Paulo , Brazil . Two helicopters and several fire department tanker units are dispatched to the scene of the explosion, which generated a strong fire. (Xinhua) 
 International relations 
 
 Algeria Morocco relations 
 Two Moroccan-French tourists are shot dead and another is injured by the Algerian National Navy after being lost on a jet ski near Sa dia and accidentally crossing the border into Algerian waters. (BBC) 
 Foreign relations of the Holy See , Foreign relations of Mongolia 
 Pope Francis arrives in Mongolia , marking the first papal visit to the country, which has a small Catholic population. ( NCR ) 
 Russia and weapons of mass destruction 
 Roscosmos head Yury Borisov announces that the RS-28 Sarmat ICBM has been deployed for combat duty. ( The Moscow Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Eighteen people are killed during a shootout between robbers and police in Limpopo , South Africa . The suspects are suspected to have been planning a cash truck heist, also called a cash-in-transit heist . (Al Jazeera) 
 Twenty-five people are arrested after a riot at a kok-boru event in Osh Region , Kyrgyzstan . ( The New York Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Singaporean presidential election 
 Former senior minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam is elected as the 9th president of Singapore with over 70% of the valid votes. (Reuters) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day August 31 Next day September 2 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_1&oldid=1196240190 "