
 
 
 October 27, 2022 ( 2022-10-27 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian forces strike Kyiv 's energy system facilities and launch BM-30 Smerch missiles on Zaporizhzhia as Ukraine repels attacks in the Donbas . (RFE/RL) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Iran Israel conflict during the Syrian civil war 
 Israel carries out airstrikes near Damascus , Syria , killing four pro- Iranian fighters. (Al Arabiya) 
 2022 Haitian crisis , Canada Haiti relations 
 Canada sends a delegation to Haiti to assess the security situation and to "consult with stakeholders on options to support Haitian people in resolving the humanitarian and security crises", amid ongoing international talks on sending a peacekeeping force to the country. (Al Jazeera) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Decommunization 
 Polish authorities demolish four communist-era monuments to the Red Army in the respective towns of G ubczyce , Byczyna , Bobolice , and Stasz w , citing a 2016 law that prohibits promotion of totalitarian regimes. (BBC News) (Al Jazeera) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Acquisition of Twitter by Elon Musk 
 Entrepreneur Elon Musk acquires Twitter, Inc. in a $ 44bn deal. Musk fires Twitter 's chief executive officer Parag Agrawal , chief financial officer Ned Segal, and the head of legal policy Vijaya Gadde upon taking over. ( Financial Times ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A firefighting aircraft of the Italian Protezione Civile crashes on Mount Etna in Sicily while fighting a forest fire, killing the two pilots on board. ( Emergency-live.com ) 
 International relations 
 
 Israeli Lebanese maritime border dispute 
 The Israeli cabinet unanimously votes in favor of approving a US -brokered maritime deal with Lebanon , with Prime Minister Yair Lapid hailing the deal as an "enemy state's formal recognition". ( Times of Israel ) 
 China Netherlands relations 
 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands announces an investigation regarding the activities of China 's two allegedly illegal police stations in the country. (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 LGBT rights in Russia 
 The State Duma unanimously gives preliminary approval to a bill strengthening a law against " propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations ". The bill will expand the ban on "propaganda" to all ages, and will outlaw media and online resources, including films, books, and theater productions. (ABC News) 
 Crime in Italy 
 One person is killed and five others, including Spanish footballer Pablo Mar , are injured during a mass stabbing at a Carrefour supermarket in Assago , Lombardy , Italy . The perpetrator, a man with mental health problems, who used a knife from a shelf, is arrested at the scene. (BBC News) 
 Eight people, all members of one family, are found dead in and around a house in Broken Arrow , Oklahoma , United States. The incident is being investigated as a possible murder-suicide . (AP) 
 Month October 2022 Previous day October 26 Next day October 28 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_October_27&oldid=1118905029 "