
 
 
 May 19, 2025 ( 2025-05-19 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip 
 At least 84 Palestinians are killed in Israeli attacks on Gaza . (Al Jazeera) 
 Somali Civil War 
 Over 70 Al-Shabaab militants are killed along the Hiran Middle Shabelle border in Somalia in an overnight military operation by the Somali National Army and local defense fighters from Hiran. (Hiiraan Online) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 National broadcasters VRT of Belgium and RTVE of Spain call for a debate on Israel 's participation in the Eurovision Song Contest . (Semana) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Indian National Highway 66 collapses in Kooriyad, Malappuram district, Kerala . Four cars on the service road are damaged in the collapse and seven passengers are injured. (The Hindu) (CNBC TV18) (The Times of India) 
 International relations 
 
 Iran United Kingdom relations 
 The Iranian foreign ministry summons the British charg d'affaires to protest the arrest of seven Iranian nationals in London earlier this month. (DW) 
 Mbanie Island territorial dispute 
 The International Court of Justice rules 13 2 that Equatorial Guinea possesses sovereignty of the islands of Conga, Mbani , and Cocoteros in a territorial dispute with Gabon . (BBC News) (DW) (Bloomberg via WorldOil) 
 Post-Brexit United Kingdom relations with the European Union 
 The United Kingdom and European Union conclude a deal on travel, food and metals exports, fishing access, and border security . ( The Guardian ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2025 New Orleans jailbreak 
 A fourth escaped inmate, of a total of 10 escapees, is captured following the mass escape of prisoners in New Orleans , Louisiana , United States . Six escaped prisoners remain at large. (ABC News) 
 Lithuania files a lawsuit against Belarus with the International Court of Justice , accusing it of orchestrating the migrant crisis and violating international law. ( Baltic Times ) 
 Russia bans Amnesty International as an undesirable organisation , accusing the group of openly supporting Ukraine in its war with Russia . (Reuters) 
 The trial of former Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro and 80 other officials begins in Bras lia . Bolsonaro, who is accused of plotting the 8 January Bras lia attacks , faces up to 40 years in prison if convicted. (France 24) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 Philippine general election 
 The nominees of the winning party-lists of the election held on May 12 are proclaimed. However, the proclamation of party-lists Duterte Youth and Bagong Henerasyon are suspended due to pending disqualification cases, leaving four seats unresolved. (GMA News) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 18 Next day May 20 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_19&oldid=1291661733 "