
 
 
 January 17, 2024 ( 2024-01-17 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Red Sea crisis 
 2024 missile strikes in Yemen 
 The United States Central Command says another round of U.S. strikes has destroyed 14 anti-ship missiles in Yemen that were being prepared to launch at merchant vessels and U.S. Navy ships in the region. (Reuters) 
 Operation Prosperity Guardian 
 The United States redesignates the Yemen-based Houthis as a terrorist organization in response to continuing attacks in the Red Sea . (Reuters) (Archive) 
 2024 Iran Pakistan border skirmishes 
 2024 Iranian missile strikes in Pakistan 
 Pakistan recalls its ambassador to Iran in response to the missile attack on its territory that killed two civilians. ( The Washington Post ) 
 2024 Ecuadorian conflict 
 Public prosecutor C sar Su rez [ es ] , who was investigating the takeover of the TC Televisi n newsroom by armed men, is killed in Guayaquil , Ecuador . (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least 19 people are killed and three others are missing in an explosion at a fireworks factory in Suphan Buri , Thailand . (AP) 
 Three people are killed and 77 others are injured in an explosion caused by explosives stored for use in illegal mining operations at several buildings in Ibadan , Nigeria . (AP) 
 Three people are killed when a power line falls on a car during a major winter storm in Portland , Oregon , United States . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Bashkortostan protests 
 Thousands of people protest the trial of Bashkir activist Fail Alsynov in Baymak , Bashkortostan , Russia . Clashes with police are reported. (RFE/RL) 
 L se-majest in Thailand 
 Thai activist Arnon Nampa is sentenced to four years in prison for posting a royal insult on social media in 2021. (CNA) 
 Three people are killed and five others injured during a mass shooting against a group of men outdoors in Morvant , Trinidad and Tobago . (AP) 
 Former Guatemalan President Alejandro Giammattei is barred from entering the U.S. after the State Department accuses him of "significant corruption". (Reuters) 
 UK Home Secretary James Cleverly announces a ban on Hizb ut-Tahrir , an Islamic fundamentalist movement, for its support of Hamas and "violently antisemitic rhetoric". ( The Algemeiner ) 
 Month January 2024 Previous day January 16 Next day January 18 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_January_17&oldid=1213310889 "