
 
 
 July 5, 2023 ( 2023-07-05 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 July 2023 Jenin incursion 
 The Israeli military withdraws its troops from the Jenin refugee camp in the occupied West Bank after two days of operations , which resulted in the deaths of at least 13 Palestinians , the displacement of thousands of people, and widespread damage. An Israeli soldier was also killed. (BBC News) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 At least 15 civilians are killed by jihadists in Sorgha , Gnagna , Burkina Faso . (AFP via VOA) 
 Kivu conflict 
 At least eight people are killed during an attack at a village in Bungushu, North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (AFP via France 24) 
 2023 Kyiv court explosion 
 Ihor Humenyuk, a defendant at the Shevchenkivskyi District Court in Kyiv and a former member of the Sich Battalion , dies after injuring two police officers in an apparent escape attempt. (Meduza) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Wyloo Metals , a privately held battery resources unit in Australia, has committed itself to an acquisition of mining company Mincor Resources , (MCR.AX), its CEO said. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Boksburg gas leak 
 Seventeen people are killed and ten others are hospitalized by a nitrate gas leak from illegal mining in an informal settlement in Boksburg , Gauteng , South Africa . (AP) 
 At least 27 people are killed and 17 injured when a bus plunges into a ravine near Magdalena Pe asco , Oaxaca , Mexico . (Al Jazeera) 
 At least 15 people are killed by flash floods caused by torrential rain in Chongqing , China . (Reuters) 
 Mongolian prime minister Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene places Ulaanbaatar on "high alert" due to severe flooding caused by unprecedented rainfall, forcing hundreds of people to evacuate . (AFP via The Manila Times ) 
 The Icelandic Meteorological Office issues a volcano warning after detecting around 2,200 earthquakes around Reykjav k , indicating a potential imminent eruption at Fagradalsfjall . An aviation safety alert has also been issued. (AFP via ABS-CBN News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Togo confirms 1,450 birds have died after an outbreak of the Influenza A virus subtype H5N1 . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Iran Saudi Arabia relations , Iran Kuwait relations 
 Saudi Arabia announces that it has rejected Iranian claims to partial ownership of the Durra gas field, following a similar announcement made by Kuwait . Saudi Arabia and Kuwait plan to jointly develop the gas field . (The Cradle) (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 The United States Secret Service confirms that cocaine was discovered in the West Wing of the White House on July 1, which led to a brief evacuation of the building. President Joe Biden has been briefed on the matter. (BBC News) 
 The Royal Canadian Mounted Police arrest the chief propagandist for neo-Nazi group Atomwaffen Division , and charge him on three counts of terrorism . ( Vice News ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 French space program 
 Aerospace manufacturer Arianespace launches its Ariane 5 launch vehicle for the final time from the Guiana Space Centre in Kourou , French Guiana , carrying French and German military satellites . (AFP via RFI) 
 Month July 2023 Previous day July 4 Next day July 6 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_July_5&oldid=1196943908 "