
 
 
 July 11, 2024 ( 2024-07-11 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 CNN reports that American and German intelligence agents foiled a plan by Russia to assassinate Armin Papperger , the CEO of German defence company Rheinmetall . (CNN) (Politico) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Effects of Hurricane Beryl in Texas 
 At least 11 people are killed in the U.S. states of Texas and Louisiana from severe weather caused by Hurricane Beryl , with more than 1.3 million homes and businesses in Texas experiencing a power outage for four days amid persistent daytime temperatures exceeding 90 F (32 C) and high humidity . (CNN) 
 Eleven people are killed when their pickup truck collides with a passenger bus in Abulug , Cagayan , Philippines . ( The Straits Times ) 
 At least 4,500 people are displaced by storms in Cape Town , South Africa . (AP) 
 A fire damages the spire of the 11th-century Rouen Cathedral , in Normandy , France , while undergoing restoration. No further damage or injuries are reported. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Israeli occupation of the West Bank 
 The United States Department of State and Department of the Treasury announce sanctions against three violent Israeli settlers who blocked humanitarian aid to Gaza and four illegal Israeli settlement outposts , and also blacklists the far-right Jewish supremacist organization Lehava . (Al Jazeera) ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 Antisemitism during the Israel Hamas war , Antisemitism in Europe 
 The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights reports significant increases (as much as 1200%) in reported antisemitic incidents in countries such as Austria , Sweden , Denmark , and Belgium since the Israel Hamas war began. (BBC News) (European Union) 
 The U.S. Treasury Department and the White House announce sanctions on the Venezuelan criminal organization Tren de Aragua and designate it as a "transnational criminal organization." The State Department also places a $ 12 million reward for information leading to the arrest of the organization's leaders. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdo an accuses U.S. President Joe Biden and his administration of complicity in Israeli war crimes by being Israel 's largest supporter during the Israel Hamas war and also condemns all nations not imposing sanctions on Israel. (Reuters) 
 Kenya Finance Bill protests 
 Kenyan President William Ruto dismisses all of his cabinet ministers as well as the attorney general in response to deadly protests against a finance bill drafted by his administration. (BBC News) 
 Thousands of anti- government protesters gather outside the Albanian Prime Minister's office and the Presidential office building in Tirana , accusing Prime Minister Edi Rama of corruption and demanding his resignation, as well as the release of opposition leader Sali Berisha from house arrest . (Reuters) 
 Month July 2024 Previous day July 10 Next day July 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_July_11&oldid=1279901754 "