
 
 
 December 20, 2023 ( 2023-12-20 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 The death toll in the Gaza Strip since Israel began airstrikes increases to at least 20,000 people. (Al Jazeera) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 In Pakistan , Sarfraz Bungulzai, leader of the separatist Baloch Nationalist Army , surrenders to authorities alongside 70 other militants in Balochistan . (AP) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 present United Kingdom cost-of-living crisis 
 2022 2023 United Kingdom industrial disputes and strikes 
 Junior doctors in England begin their longest strike action yet, spanning nine days, to address pay-related disputes with the National Health Service . (AFP via ABS-CBN News) 
 2018 present Argentine monetary crisis 
 Argentine president Javier Milei announces a series of economic deregulation measures, targeting over 300 regulations including property and labor laws , to address the crisis. (AFP via France 24) 
 Japanese electronics company Toshiba is delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange after 74 years. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Twelve people are killed and 13 others are injured when a mining cart runs off the tracks in Jixi , Heilongjiang , China . (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Canada implements a single-use plastic ban as part of its initiative to achieve zero plastic waste by 2030, despite a court ruling that deemed such restrictions unconstitutional. (AFP via Daily Tribune ) 
 International relations 
 
 International reactions to the Israel Hamas war , Israel Malaysia relations 
 Malaysian prime minister Anwar Ibrahim announces that Israel-registered ships, and all foreign vessels heading to Israel, are banned from docking within their ports or receiving cargo. (Al Jazeera) 
 United States Venezuela relations 
 Venezuela releases ten Americans and extradites fugitive Leonard Glenn Francis , while the United States releases Alex Saab , an ally of Venezuelan president Nicol s Maduro , in a prisoner exchange between the two countries. As part of the deal, Venezuela will also release around 20 political prisoners from jail. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Israel Hamas war protests in the United States 
 Pro-Palestine protesters vandalize the stairs of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C. with graffiti reading "Free Gaza". ( The Hill ) 
 December murders 
 Former Surinamese president D si Bouterse is sentenced to 20 years in prison for the 1982 murders of 15 men. (NOS) 
 Murder of Brianna Ghey 
 A Manchester Crown Court jury convicts two teenagers of murdering trans girl Brianna Ghey in Warrington , Cheshire , England. (AFP via NDTV) 
 The Parliament of Kyrgyzstan votes 59 5 in favor of passing a bill to modify the national flag . (AKIpress) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Democratic Republic of the Congo general election 
 Voters in the Democratic Republic of the Congo elect their president , members of the National Assembly , provincial assemblies, and commune councils. Voting is extended until December 21. (Reuters) 
 2023 Guinea-Bissau coup attempt 
 President Umaro Sissoco Embal dismisses Prime Minister Geraldo Martins , appointing Rui Duarte Barros as Martins' successor. (AFP via France 24) 
 The U.S. state of Minnesota votes to change its flag . ( The New York Times ) 
 Month December 2023 Previous day December 19 Next day December 21 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_December_20&oldid=1225160151 "