
 
 
 August 13, 2024 ( 2024-08-13 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2024 Kursk offensive 
 Ukraine says that its troops are still advancing in Kursk Oblast and now control 74 settlements inside Russia . The Russian Defence Ministry says that its forces are fighting the Ukrainians about 28 km (17 mi) from the border . (Reuters) 
 Akhmat special forces commander Apti Alaudinov says that the Ukrainian advance into Kursk Oblast is currently stopped due to Russian counter-attacks . (Reuters) 
 Gaza war 
 United States support for Israel in the Gaza war 
 The United States government approves $20 billion in weapon sales to Israel , including fifty F-15 fighter jets and advanced upgrade kits for Israel's existing F-15 jets. (AP) 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Two Hezbollah militants, three Lebanese civilians killed, 21 injured in Israeli airstrikes on Hezbollah targets in Baraachit , Tyre , Aabbassiyeh , Kfarkela , At Tiri and Marjayoun in southern Lebanon . Hezbollah launches rockets at Kfarchouba , Shebaa Farms , Shtula , Kiryat Shmona and Beit Hillel . (Al Jazeera) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Israeli crowds led by far-right security minister Itamar Ben-Gvir storm the Al-Aqsa Mosque and several villages in the West Bank on Tisha B'av . Israel Police officers reportedly offered protection to Israeli settlers, while the United States and the United Nations denounce the raids. (Al Jazeera) 
 Yemeni civil war 
 The Houthis storm the headquarters of the United Nation 's Human Rights Office in Sanaa , Yemen , and detain Yemeni workers, and seize official documents. ( The New Arab ) (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Schools are canceled in Puerto Rico as Tropical Storm Ernesto is expected to strengthen into a hurricane overnight. (USA Today) 
 2024 Attica wildfires 
 At least one person is killed and dozens of others are injured in wildfires across Greece , with evacuations ordered for residents in at least one area near Athens . (CNN) (DW) 
 2024 Kiteezi landslide 
 The death toll for the landslide in the Kiteezi Rubbish Dump in Kampala , Uganda , increases to 24. (DW) 
 2024 Sudan floods 
 At least 68 people are killed in Sudan 's worst flooding since 2019, impacting several internally displaced person camps amid the ongoing Sudanese civil war . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Human rights in Austria , 2024 Vienna terrorism plot 
 Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer announces a package of new anti-terrorism measures , including granting Austrian security services the ability to monitor private communications sent on messaging and social media apps and decrypt encrypted messages , and restricting the right to assembly of groups declared " hostile to democracy ". (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Kolkata rape and murder incident 
 Thousands of doctors and university students participate in walkouts and protests against sexual violence in cities across India after the alleged rape and murder of a female medical trainee in Kolkata last week. (DW) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Ford and Mazda issue warnings to owners of over 475,000 vehicles with Takata airbag inflators , cautioning them of the possibility for the inflators to explode with metal shrapnel. (AP) 
 Month August 2024 Previous day August 12 Next day August 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_August_13&oldid=1273134647 "