
 
 
 August 10, 2022 ( 2022-08-10 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian occupation of Zaporizhzhia Oblast 
 Russian forces install air defence systems at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant in Zaporizhzhia Oblast , Ukraine , according to the head of Moscow -appointed administration of Zaporizhzhia Oblast Yevhen Balytskyi . (MSN) 
 A Russian missile strike in Nikopol Raion , Dnipropetrovsk Oblast , kills at least 13 civilians and injures 11 others. ( The New York Times ) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Cartel gunmen in Mexico burn down dozens of stores and block streets with burning cars in the states of Jalisco and Guanajuato in response to arrests of cartel figures by the National Guard . (AP) 
 Business and economy 
 
 COVID-19 recession 
 Economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic 
 Domino's Pizza closes all of its stores in Italy after its franchise holder ePizza SpA files for bankruptcy . The American restaurant chain says that it was severely impacted by COVID-19 restrictions in the country. (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A house explodes in Evansville , Indiana , United States, killing at least three people, injuring one and damaging at least 39 nearby houses. (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Anti-government protests occur in Sierra Leone , calling for the removal of President Julius Maada Bio . Both protestors and policemen are killed during clashes. ( The Washington Post ) 
 Uzbekistan 's embassy in Russia warns its citizens not to join Russian forces invading Ukraine , saying that those who do so will be criminally liable for mercenaryism upon returning to Uzbekistan. ( EuroWeekly News ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Papua New Guinean general election 
 James Marape is re-elected unopposed as Prime Minister by the Parliament after his party Pangu Pati won the general election in July. ( The Guardian ) 
 Month August 2022 Previous day August 9 Next day August 11 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_August_10&oldid=1147366395 "