
 
 
 June 2, 2024 ( 2024-06-02 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Darfur campaign 
 Battle of El Fasher 
 The Ministry of Health of North Darfur reports that there has been 82 deaths and hundreds of injuries due to clashes in El Fasher over the last two days. (Sudan Tribune) 
 UNICEF reports that more than 270,000 people, including more than 130,000 children, are at risk following fighting at the Golo Reservoir in El Fasher , North Darfur , Sudan . (The Print) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russia NATO relations , Russia United States relations 
 Russia accuses NATO and the United States of "provoking a new level of tension" after some allies agreed to let Ukraine's military use Western -supplied weapons to strike targets inside Russia. (BBC News) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Iran Israel conflict during the Syrian civil war 
 Israeli airstrikes in the Aleppo region kill 17 Iranian-backed militia members, including two Iranian advisors, and three Hezbollah members. (SOHR) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Germany floods 
 A firefighter is killed and thousands of people are evacuated after heavy rains cause flooding in southern Germany , particularly in Baden-W rttemberg and Bavaria . (Reuters) (DW) 
 International relations 
 
 International reactions to the Israel Hamas war , Israel Maldives relations 
 The Maldives announces a ban on Israeli passport holders from entering the country. (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A mass shooting in Akron , Ohio , kills a 27-year-old man and wounds 24 people. (NPR) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Mexican general election 
 Mexicans elect a new president and legislature , eight governors , the mayor of Mexico City , and around 20,000 other positions in federal and local elections . (CNN) 
 Claudia Sheinbaum wins the presidential election. She will begin her term as Mexico 's first female president on October 1. (CBC) 
 2024 Iranian presidential election 
 Former president of Iran Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announces that he intends to run again following the death of Ebrahim Raisi . Ahmadinejad has been rejected from running in the two previous presidential elections. (ABC News Australia) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Chinese space program 
 China 's Chang'e 6 lunar exploration mission to collect moon rock successfully lands on the far side of the Moon . (Reuters) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 1 Next day June 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_2&oldid=1273740616 "