
 
 
 August 30, 2024 ( 2024-08-30 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 2024 Israeli military operation in the northern West Bank 
 Three Palestinian militants, including Hamas' leader in Jenin , Wissam Hazem, are killed in a drone strike at the Jenin refugee camp in the West Bank . (Al Jazeera) 
 An Israeli soldier is killed and several others are injured in an IED attack in Jenin, West Bank. ( Palestine Chronicle ) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Kharkiv strikes 
 Seven people are killed when a Russian guided bomb strikes a residential building and playground in Kharkiv , Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy dismisses the commander of the Ukrainian Air Force Mykola Oleshchuk following the crash of an F-16 fighter jet and the death of its pilot while defending against Russian strikes. (Reuters) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Seven people are killed and 25 others are injured in shelling near Khartoum , Sudan . ( Sudan Tribune ) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Twelve Pakistani Taliban members are killed during a raid by the Pakistani Army in the Tirah Valley of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan , bringing the number of insurgents killed there to 37 since August 20. (AP) 
 Islamic State insurgency in Iraq 
 At least 15 Islamic State militants are killed and seven U.S. troops are injured in a joint United States Iraq raid on Islamic State camps in Anbar Desert , Iraq . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Venezuelan blackouts 
 A widespread power outage affects most of Venezuela with President Nicol s Maduro's government blaming it on sabotage by the opposition . (DW) 
 Four people are killed and one other is missing when a National Republican Guard helicopter crashes into the Douro river in Lamego , Portugal . (DW) 
 At least two people are killed and 20 others are injured when a roof of a church that was used for food distribution collapses in Recife , Brazil . (Reuters) (Yahoo! News) 
 International relations 
 
 Afghanistan Germany relations 
 Germany deports 28 convicted Afghan criminals, marking the first such action since the Taliban regained control of Afghanistan in August 2021 . (AP) 
 Mongolia Russia relations , Foreign relations of Ukraine 
 President of Ukraine Volodomyr Zelenskyy urges Mongolia to arrest Russian President Vladimir Putin as he travels to Ulaanbaatar to make his first meeting to an International Criminal Court member state since the issue of his ICC arrest warrant. (France 24) 
 Russia NATO relations , Ukraine NATO relations , 2024 Kursk offensive 
 Secretary General of NATO Jens Stoltenberg declares that Ukraine 's incursion into Russian territory in Kursk Oblast is legitimate under international law , as part of Ukraine's right to self-defense . (Reuters) 
 East Timor joins the World Trade Organization . (WTO) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Censorship of Twitter , Censorship in Brazil ,
 Brazilian investigation into Elon Musk 
 Brazil blocks X after they ignore court orders relating to misinformation about the 2023 Brazilian Congress attack on the platform. ( The New York Times ) 
 Six people are wounded in a stabbing attack on a bus in Siegen , North Rhine-Westphalia , Germany . (DW) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Death of T heitia Paki 
 Incumbent M ori King T heitia dies at the age of 69 while recovering from heart surgery . ( New Zealand Herald ) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 ATP Tour 
 2024 US Open Men's singles 
 Defending men's champion Novak Djokovic is defeated in the third round by Alexei Popyrin , 6-4, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4, making 2024 the first tennis season since 2002 in which no Grand Slam tournaments were won by one of Djokovic, Roger Federer , or Rafael Nadal , collectively known as the " big three ." (AP News) 
 Month August 2024 Previous day August 29 Next day August 31 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_August_30&oldid=1291564248 "