
 
 
 April 9, 2024 ( 2024-04-09 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Humanitarian aid during the Israel Hamas war 
 The largest humanitarian aid airdrop since the war began takes place over the northern Gaza Strip , with at least 14 aircraft from nine nations taking part in the operation. (BBC News) 
 Sistan and Baluchestan insurgency 
 Six police officers are killed and two more injured during an ambush by Jaish ul-Adl gunmen in Sistan and Baluchestan , Iran . (AP) 
 War in Sudan 
 Heavy fighting and clashes occur between the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in areas controlled by the RSF primarily near Wad Madani in Gezira State . (Dabanga Sudan) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Economic impact of the Israel Hamas war , Israel Turkey relations 
 The Turkish Trade Ministry announces that it will suspend the export of 54 categories of goods to Israel in response to Israel banning Turkey from participating in humanitarian air drops over the Gaza Strip . (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2020 2024 H5N1 outbreak 
 A Federation University Australia expedition confirms that bird flu is currently spreading across Antarctica , with outbreaks confirmed in wild bird populations in Beak Island , Hope Bay , Devil Island , and Paulet Island . ( El Pais ) 
 2024 Lake Suviana explosion 
 Three people are killed, five are injured and four are missing in an explosion at a power plant on Lake Suviana, near Bologna , Italy . (AP) 
 2024 Mozambique boat disaster 
 The death toll from Sunday's ferry sinking in Mozambique increases to more than 100 people, with around 20 people still missing. (NOS) 
 Orsk Dam collapse 
 More than 100,000 people in Russia and Kazakhstan are ordered to evacuate amid catastrophic flooding along the Ural river . (Reuters) 
 The United Nations ' International Organization for Migration reports that 38 people died when a boat, which has carried around 66 Ethiopian migrants, has sank off Godoria, Djibouti , a day before while on its way to Yemen . At least six more are still missing and presumed dead. (AFP via South China Morning Post ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Abortion in the United States 
 The Arizona Supreme Court upholds a law criminalizing most types of abortions in the case Planned Parenthood Arizona v. Mayes . ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Politics of Iceland 
 Icelandic Minister of Foreign Affairs Bjarni Benediktsson is appointed Prime Minister after Katr n Jakobsd ttir 's resignation on 5 April. (The Guardian) 
 Month April 2024 Previous day April 8 Next day April 10 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_April_9&oldid=1275152370 "