
 
 
 November 9, 2024 ( 2024-11-09 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 2024 Quetta railway station bombing 
 At least 26 people, including fourteen soldiers , are killed and more than 62 others are injured in a suicide bombing at a rail station in Quetta , Balochistan , Pakistan . The Balochistan Liberation Army claims responsibility for the attack. (Al Jazeera) 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli incursions in the West Bank during the Israel Hamas war 
 At least one person is killed and two others are injured in a raid by Israeli forces in Aqqaba in the West Bank . (Al Jazeera) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 At least 40 people, including several children, are killed in Israeli airstrikes on several cities in Lebanon . (Reuters) 
 Boko Haram insurgency 
 Fifteen Chad National Army soldiers are killed and 32 others are wounded in clashes with Boko Haram militants near Lake Chad . At least 96 Boko Haram militants are killed and 11 others are wounded in the operation. (Reuters) (DW) 
 Colombian conflict 
 A soldier is killed and 16 other people are injured during two separated motorcycle bombings in Jamund and Cauca Department , Colombia . (Infobae 1) (Infobae 2) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 The United Nations Security Council sanctions the head of operations of the Rapid Support Forces and the force's West Darfur commander for their human rights abuses and for promoting violence in Sudan . (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Spanish floods 
 Tens of thousands of protesters demonstrate in Valencia , Spain , to demand the resignation of President of the Valencian Government Carlos Maz n for his handling of the warnings and subsequent management of last week's deadly floods. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 China Indonesia relations 
 Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto sign several cooperation deals worth $10 billion seeking partnership in key areas including water conservation , marine resources , and mining . ( Bangkok Post ) (Reuters) 
 North Korea Russia relations 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin signs into law the North Korean Russian Treaty on Comprehensive Strategic Partnership , a mutual defense pact with North Korea . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A man injures four friars at a monastery in Gilet , Province of Valencia , Spain , before fleeing the scene. (ABC.es) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Bolivia protests 
 The constitutional court of Bolivia prohibits former President Evo Morales from running for office in any position, thereby preventing him from contesting next year's election . (Al Jazeera) 
 Month November 2024 Previous day November 8 Next day November 10 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_November_9&oldid=1272918277 "