
 
 
 December 16, 2022 ( 2022-12-16 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russian forces launch a barrage of at least 76 missiles across Ukraine , damaging at least nine power stations and killing at least three civilians , with many more civilians being injured. (BBC News) 
 2022 Jordanian protests 
 Protests and riots over high fuel prices occur across Jordan , with a policeman being shot dead by protestors in Ma'an . (Al Jazeera) 
 Kurdish Turkish conflict 
 Nine people are injured by a car bombing in Diyarbak r Province , Turkey . (Reuters) 
 Mali War 
 Two MINUSMA police personnel are killed and four others are injured after a United Nations Police patrol is attacked in Timbuktu , Mali . (AFP via RT ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Batang Kali landslide 
 A landslide hits a campsite on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , killing 21 people and leaving twelve more missing. (Reuters) 
 Vaulx-en-Velin fire 
 Ten people are killed and 14 others are injured in a residential building fire in Vaulx-en-Velin , Lyon Metropolis , France . (Euronews) 
 2022 West Java earthquake 
 The death toll in the earthquake that struck near Cianjur , West Java , Indonesia , in November increases to 602. (AFP via Philippine Daily Inquirer ) 
 Four people are injured, two of whom later died after a stampede at Nigerian singer Asake 's concert at the Brixton Academy in London , United Kingdom . (AP) (BBC News) 
 The AquaDom aquarium in Berlin , Germany , home to 1,500 tropical fish of more than 100 different species, bursts, flooding local streets. The majority of the fish die during the incident, and two people are injured. (BBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 Burkina Faso Ghana relations 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 Burkina Faso summons Ghanaian ambassador Naa Bolinaa Saaka over Ghanaian president Nana Akufo-Addo 's remarks alleging that the Burkinab government had amalgamated with Russian paramilitary organization Wagner Group in their civil war against Islamist rebels. (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Humanitarian impact of the Russo-Georgian War 
 The International Criminal Court concludes its investigation in the situation in Georgia , delivering arrest warrants for three de facto South Ossetian officials believed to bear responsibility for war crimes against Georgian civilians during the 2008 war . The fourth suspect, Russian general Vyacheslav Borisov , is not indicted as he died in 2021. (ICC) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Aftermath of the 2022 Fijian general election 
 Fijian police detain opposition leader and former prime minister Sitiveni Rabuka for interrogation over his claims of electoral fraud in the recent election. (AFP via UrduPoint) 
 Month December 2022 Previous day December 15 Next day December 17 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_December_16&oldid=1274097506 "