
 
 
 June 15, 2024 ( 2024-06-15 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 Three people are killed and five others are injured in a Russian cluster munition strike on the village of Ulakly in Donetsk Oblast . ( The Kyiv Independent ) 
 Humanitarian aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 The United States announces a $1.5 billion aid package to Ukraine , focused primarily on the country's energy industry and humanitarian assistance . (Politico) 
 June 2024 Ukraine peace summit 
 World leaders meet at the B rgenstock Resort in Switzerland to advance the Ukrainian peace process . ( The Guardian ) 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Rafah offensive 
 An IED kills eight IDF personnel in a Namer armoured personnel carrier in Rafah . ( Times of Israel ) (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Two people are killed in a plane crash near Chino , California , United States . ( Los Angeles Times ) 
 A Dutch tourist is found dead and three other tourists are missing on different Greek islands. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Iran Sweden relations 
 Iran and Sweden complete a prisoner swap mediated by Oman , with former Iranian official Hamid Nouri being exchanged for former Swedish diplomat Johan Floderus and a Swedish-Iranian citizen. (Al Jazeera) 
 Territorial disputes in the South China Sea 
 China issues new regulations allowing its national coastguard to detain foreigners accused of illegally entering China's claimed territorial waters and adjacent waters. (Al Jazeera) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 French legislative election 
 Over 600,000 people march in cities across France to protest against the far-right National Rally party. (Reuters) 
 Honduran gang crackdown 
 Honduran President Xiomara Castro announces new measures to reduce gang activity in Honduras , including building a 20,000-capacity "megaprison" and plans to designate gang members as terrorists . (Al Jazeera) 
 Thousands of women march in S o Paulo , Brazil , in protest of a bill that would equate late abortions after 22 weeks to homicide with sentences of six to 20 years in prison. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Rochester Hills shooting 
 Nine people are injured, including two young children, in a shooting at a splash pad in Rochester Hills, Michigan , United States . (NPR) 
 Two people are killed and fourteen are injured after a shooting at a Juneteenth celebration at a park in Round Rock, Texas , United States . (AP) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 14 Next day June 16 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_15&oldid=1234679118 "