
 
 
 February 27, 2024 ( 2024-02-27 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Red Sea crisis 
 Operation Aspides 
 German Navy warship Hessen shoots down two drones launched by Houthi forces in Yemen as part of the European Union 's mission to protect international shipping in the Red Sea . (Reuters) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 The Ukrainian military withdraws from the villages of Sieverne and Stepove near Avdiivka , Donetsk Oblast , following the announcement of its withdrawal from the nearby village of Lastochkyne on February 26. (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Japanese technology company Sony announces it will cut 900 jobs across its global workforce and has also proposed the closure of London Studio as part of the restructuring. (Sony Interactive Entertainment press release) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Thirty-one people are killed and ten more injured after a bus en route from Mali to Burkina Faso crashes on a road in Koumantou . (AP) 
 Multiple tornadoes spawn from a very rare late season tornado outbreak. (February 27-28, 2024 Tornadoes) 
 Two people are killed in Conakry , Guinea , during protests related to an ongoing nationwide strike . (Reuters) 
 The Smokehouse Creek Fire in the Texas panhandle continues to spread, with almost 200,000 acres currently on fire. (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 1974 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries bombing 
 The identity of a deceased man is confirmed by a DNA test to be Satoshi Kirishima , who participated in a 1974 bombing. (BBC News) 
 In the Netherlands , the Marengo trial concludes after six years. Of the 17 prosecuted people, three people, including Ridouan Taghi and Sa d Razzouki , are sentenced to life imprisonment for their role in ten murders. (NOS) 
 Russian human rights activist Oleg Orlov is sentenced to 2 and a half years in prison for "repeatedly discrediting" the Russian military . (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Republican Party presidential primaries , 2024 Democratic Party presidential primaries 
 Michigan holds its Republican and Democratic primaries . Former President Donald Trump and incumbent President Joe Biden are the respective winners. (VOA) ( The New York Times ) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 26 Next day February 28 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_27&oldid=1276704051 "