
 
 
 September 24, 2022 ( 2022-09-24 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Russian mobilization 
 Thousands of fighting-age men continue to leave Russia due to the mobilization . Massive lines are reported at the country's borders with Georgia and Finland . (iNews) 
 2022 anti-war protests in Russia 
 At least 700 people are detained during anti-war protests across Russia. (ITV News) 
 Kurdish separatism in Iran 
 The Iranian Revolutionary Guards shell the "[h]eadquarters of anti-Iranian terrorists" in Iraqi Kurdistan . (Reuters) 
 Fifteen people are killed and many others are injured after armed bandits attacked a mosque in Zamfara , Nigeria . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Hurricane Fiona leaves more than 500,000 people without power in Atlantic Canada . (CBC) 
 2022 Pacific typhoon season 
 Two people are killed and 120,000 people experience a power outage after Tropical Storm Talas hits central Japan . (NBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 Iran Ukraine relations 
 Ukraine announces a reduction of Iranian diplomatic mission staff in response to the delivery of drones to Russia as part of the Russo-Ukrainian War . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Mahsa Amini protests 
 The death toll from the protests in Iran increases to 50. ( Hindustan Times ) 
 The Iranian Army announces that it will "confront the enemies" in response to the ongoing protests. (Dawn) 
 Reports emerge that protestors have allegedly "taken control" of the city of Oshnavieh after security forces withdraw. (Atalayar) 
 Three people are injured after a shooting occurred at an amusement park in West Mifflin , Allegheny County , Pennsylvania , United States . (AP) (Wikinews) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Nauruan parliamentary election 
 Voters in Nauru head to the polls to elect members of parliament . (RNZ) 
 2022 Angolan general election 
 Thousands of people protest in Luanda , Angola , accusing incumbent president Jo o Louren o of electoral fraud in the latest election. (Reuters) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Mahsa Amini protests 
 Elon Musk says that Starlink will be enabled inside Iranian cities after the United States State and Treasury Departments announce measures to increase internet freedom and access to information in the country. (Reuters) 
 The planned launch of Artemis 1 is newly delayed due to a storm. (BBC News) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 AFL Grand Final 
 In Australian rules football, the AFL season concludes with Geelong defeating the Sydney Swans in the Grand Final by 81 points. ( The Australian ) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 23 Next day September 25 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_24&oldid=1169972979 "