
 
 
 March 17, 2023 ( 2023-03-17 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Slovakia announces that it will donate its MiG-29 fighter jets , and supply part of its Kub air-defense system to Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 Islamic State Taliban conflict 
 The Taliban kill several Islamic State Khorasan Province insurgents and seize weapons and ammunitions during raids at hideouts in Mazar-i-Sharif , Balkh Province . (Xinhua) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Turkish floods 
 The death toll from the floods in anl urfa and Ad yaman , Turkey , increases to 18. (A News) 
 Fourteen people are killed and at least 12 others are injured by a roof collapse at a cold storage warehouse in Sambhal , Uttar Pradesh , India . (Metro) 
 Ten people are killed and three others are injured by a house fire in Kohistan District , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Enlargement of NATO 
 Finland Turkey relations 
 Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdo an announces that Turkey will begin the process of ratifying Finland 's membership of NATO without Sweden , which Turkey accuses of supporting the PKK . (Yle) 
 Finland Hungary relations 
 Hungary announces that a vote on Finland's membership application will take place on March 27. Fidesz parliamentary group leader M t Kocsis says that Sweden's application will be considered at a later date. (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 ICC arrest warrants for Vladimir Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova 
 The International Criminal Court issues an arrest warrant for Russian president Vladimir Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova , presidential commissioner for children's rights , for alleged war crimes involving the abduction and forced adoption of children from Ukraine . (AP) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Censorship of TikTok , Internet censorship in New Zealand 
 New Zealand bans the use of Chinese -owned video sharing app TikTok on all government devices. ( The Guardian ) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament 
 2023 Fairleigh Dickinson vs. Purdue men's basketball game 
 No. 1 seed Purdue is defeated 58 63 by No 16 seed Fairleigh Dickinson , only the second time a 16 seed has defeated a 1 seed in the tournament's history and the first time since 2018. (USA Today) 
 Month March 2023 Previous day March 16 Next day March 18 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_March_17&oldid=1186405513 "