
 
 
 August 24, 2023 ( 2023-08-24 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kurdish Turkish conflict 
 Seven Kurdistan Workers' Party militants are killed in Kurdistan Region , Iraq , by two Turkish drone strikes . (AFP via France 24) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Air traffic controllers at Beirut s Rafik Hariri International Airport in Lebanon announce they will go on strike next month due to severe staffing shortages, partially closing the airport. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Twelve people are killed and seven are rescued in a boat crash in Lafia , Nasarawa State , Nigeria . (Punch) 
 One person is killed and eight others are injured by rockfalls in the Ein Gedi nature reserve in Israel . ( Times of Israel ) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Discharge of radioactive water of the Fukushima Nuclear Plant 
 Japan begins the discharge of treated radioactive waste water from the damaged Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant into the Pacific Ocean . ( The Independent ) 
 International relations 
 
 15th BRICS summit 
 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa invites Argentina , Egypt , Ethiopia , Iran , Saudi Arabia , and the United Arab Emirates to join the bloc , with membership taking effect next year. (Bloomberg) 
 China Japan relations 
 China suspends the import of Japanese seafood following Japan's discharge of treated radioactive waste water from Fukushima . (AFP via The Times of Malta ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Hawaii wildfires 
 The County of Maui in Hawaii , United States , files a lawsuit against Hawaiian Electric , alleging negligence and failing to shut down equipment during the wildfires that ravaged the island including Lahaina . (Reuters) 
 Adass Israel School sex abuse scandal 
 The County Court of Victoria in Australia sentences Malka Leifer, the principal of a Jewish religious school in Melbourne , to 15 years in prison for the sexual assault of two sisters. (AFP via Bangkok Post ) 
 Georgia election racketeering prosecution 
 Former U.S. President Donald Trump is booked at a jail in Fulton County , Georgia . (NBC News) 
 Colombia introduces passports with a non-binary option, following a 2022 court ruling that permitted such identification on official documents. (AFP via Philippine Daily Inquirer ) 
 A German federal court rejects an appeal by a military officer who posed as a asylum-seeker and was convicted of plotting to attack prominent politicians. (AP) 
 The U.S. Department of Justice sues SpaceX for alleged hiring discrimination against refugees and people seeking or granted asylum . (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 Chess World Cup 2023 
 Norway 's Magnus Carlsen wins his first Chess World Cup title after defeating India 's R Praggnanandhaa in a tiebreak . (CNN) 
 Month August 2023 Previous day August 23 Next day August 25 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_August_24&oldid=1172409145 "