
 
 
 December 28, 2023 ( 2023-12-28 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Southern Ukraine campaign 
 Greek -owned cargo ship Vyssos travelling to Ukraine hits a Russian naval mine in the Black Sea , injuring three crew members, Ukraine says. (BBC News) (Xinhua) 
 Mexican drug war 
 La Familia Michoacana drug cartel kidnap 14 people from Texcaltitl n , state of Mexico , in retaliation for a previous incident in which 10 cartel members were killed by residents of the town. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least 13 people are killed when a bus catches fire after colliding head-on with a truck on a highway in Guna district , Madhya Pradesh , India . (India Today) 
 At least 10 people are killed and 57 others are injured in a multiple-vehicle collision on motorway Otoyol 7 in Sakarya Province , Turkey . (AP via New Haven Register ) 
 International relations 
 
 Bulgaria and Romania reach an agreement with Austria to become members of the Schengen Area through sea and air routes in March, with discussions regarding the opening of land borders scheduled to begin next year. (AFP via Le Monde ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment in Qatar 
 A court in Qatar reduces the sentences of eight retired Indian Navy officers who had been sentenced to death for spying . (AP) 
 Gypsy Rose Blanchard , a victim of her mother's Munchausen syndrome by proxy , is released early from prison after serving seven years of a ten-year sentence for conspiring to murder her mother Dee Dee Blanchard in the U.S. state of Missouri in 2015. (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 United States presidential election 
 Donald Trump 2024 presidential campaign , 2024 presidential eligibility of Donald Trump 
 Former President Donald Trump is returned to the primary ballot in Colorado , after the Colorado Republican Party appealed Trump's removal under the 14th Amendment earlier this month. Separately, Maine Secretary of State Shenna Bellows removes Trump from the state 's primary ballot under the 14th Amendment. (CBS) (AP) 
 Month December 2023 Previous day December 27 Next day December 29 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_December_28&oldid=1192777102 "