
 
 
 August 16, 2022 ( 2022-08-16 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 An explosion occurs at an ammunition depot in northern Crimea , forcing the evacuation of civilians. Observers suggest that the depot may have been hit by Ukrainian forces . (Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Turkish involvement in the Syrian civil war 
 2022 Jarqli airstrikes 
 Turkish airstrikes on a military base in Aleppo Governorate kill at least 16 Syrian soldiers . (Al Mayadeen) 
 Sinai insurgency 
 Hamza Adel Al-Zamili, a leader of the Islamic State Sinai Province and mastermind of the 2017 Sinai mosque attack , is killed by Egyptian soldiers during an operation. Nine other militants are also killed and three arrested. (Arab News) (The Jerusalem Post) 
 South Thailand insurgency 
 A ranger is killed while seven policemen and two civilians are injured as two bombs explode at a rubber plantation in Narathiwat , Thailand . ( The Sun ) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Two policemen are killed when gunmen open fire on them as they are escorting polio workers in Gomal , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Twenty people are killed and six others are injured when a passenger bus collides with a tanker truck in Jalalpur Pirwala , Punjab , Pakistan . (Xinhua News Agency) 
 Six people are killed and several others are injured when a bus falls into a gorge in Jammu and Kashmir , India . (Reuters) 
 One person is killed and nine others are injured when a test car crashes into traffic in Reutlingen , Baden-W rttemberg , Germany . (AP) 
 A Sudanese official reports that 66 people have been killed and 24,000 homes and buildings have been damaged since flooding began in June. (ABC News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in the United States 
 U.S. First Lady Jill Biden tests positive for COVID-19 . (NPR) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Human rights in Saudi Arabia 
 A Saudi Arabian woman is sentenced to 34 years in prison for following and retweeting dissidents on Twitter . ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 The prime minister of Vanuatu Bob Loughman asks for the dissolution of parliament as he faces a vote of no-confidence . (RNZ Pacific) 
 Month August 2022 Previous day August 15 Next day August 17 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_August_16&oldid=1294103381 "