
 
 
 September 1, 2022 ( 2022-09-01 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Syrian civil war 
 Iran Israel conflict during the Syrian civil war 
 Israeli Air Force jets fire four missiles at Aleppo International Airport , hitting the runway and several warehouses allegedly containing Iranian rockets, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . No casualties have been reported. (ABC News) 
 Iraqi political crisis 
 2022 Baghdad clashes 
 Four people are killed during clashes between rival Shia Muslim fighters in Basra , Iraq , three days after 30 supporters of Shia cleric Muqtada al-Sadr were killed during clashes in Baghdad . (Al Jazeera) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Two Palestinian men are killed in clashes with Israeli soldiers in the occupied West Bank . One of the men was killed by Palestinian gunfire, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry. ( Haaretz ) 
 Cross-Strait relations 
 Taiwanese forces shoot down an unidentified civilian drone which entered its airspace near the Shi Islet in the Taiwan Strait . Taiwan's Ministry of National Defense says that the drone ignored several warning shots before being shot down. (Reuters) 
 Tigray War 
 The Tigray People's Liberation Front claims that Eritrea and Ethiopia have launched a joint offensive in the Tigray Region . (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2019 present Sri Lankan economic crisis 
 The International Monetary Fund provisionally approves a US$ 2.9 billion bailout for Sri Lanka . (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Australia 
 Victoria removes its directive to work remotely where possible. ( The Guardian ) 
 A third person dies from an unidentified virus in Tucum n Province , Argentina . Authorities have ruled out COVID-19 , influenza , and hantavirus , but continue to investigate the cluster of infections. The European Centre for Disease Control and the World Health Organization have also been notified. ( The Daily Telegraph ) 
 A temperature of 127 F (53 C) is recorded in Furnace Creek, California , United States, breaking the record for the highest September temperature ever recorded in the world. (CBS News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Attempted assassination of Cristina Fern ndez de Kirchner 
 A Brazilian man, identified as 35-year-old Fernando Montiel, is arrested by the Argentine Federal Police shortly after attempting to shoot Vice President Cristina Kirchner . Montiel pointed a loaded pistol at Kirchner's head and apparently pulled the trigger, but the weapon did not fire. ( Washington Examiner ) 
 Four people are killed and several others are injured after a mass shooting at a soccer field in Yecapixtla , Morelos , Mexico . (AP) 
 The High Court of Malaysia finds Rosmah Mansor , wife of former Prime Minister Najib Razak , guilty of corruption. ( The Straits Times ) (CNN) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day August 31 Next day September 2 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_1&oldid=1109232892 "