
 
 
 May 30, 2024 ( 2024-05-30 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War , Russia NATO relations 
 2024 Kharkiv offensive 
 The United States gives Ukraine permission to strike Russian territory near Kharkiv Oblast with U.S.-supplied weapons , but not with long-range missiles . ( Politico ) ( CNN ) 
 Danish Foreign Minister Lars L kke Rasmussen says Denmark has approved Ukrainian airstrikes on Russian territory using Danish-supplied F-16 jets . ( The Moscow Times ) 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Humanitarian aid during the Israel Hamas war 
 The Israeli military lifts a ban on the sale of food to the Gaza Strip from Israel and the West Bank . (Reuters) 
 Rafah offensive , Siege of Gaza City , Refugee camp airstrikes in the Israel Hamas war 
 Israeli airstrikes kill twelve Palestinian civilians in Rafah and one at the al-Shati camp near Gaza City . (Reuters) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 2024 Sanaa strikes 
 The United States Navy and the Royal Navy strike thirteen Houthi locations across Yemen , damaging underground facilities and vessels, killing at least two people and wounding ten. (NPR) 
 North Korea and weapons of mass destruction 
 North Korea launches a series of short-range ballistic missiles from Pyongyang toward the Sea of Japan . (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A bus falls into a gorge in Jammu division , India , killing 21 people travelling to a pilgrimage site in Reasi district . (ABC News) 
 A person is killed after falling into a running aircraft engine of a departing plane at Amsterdam Schiphol Airport in the Netherlands . (Al Jazeera) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2020 2024 H5N1 outbreak 
 The third human case of H5N1 bird flu in the United States is found in a dairy worker in Michigan . (NPR) 
 International relations 
 
 International recognition of the State of Palestine 
 Slovenia 's ruling cabinet approves a motion to recognize Palestine as an independent nation and sends the motion to the National Assembly for adoption. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Catalan independence movement 
 The Spanish parliament votes to pass a bill granting amnesty to hundreds of Catalan secessionists involved in the Catalan declaration of independence from 2011 to 2017. (Al Jazeera) 
 Prosecution of Donald Trump in New York 
 Former President of the United States Donald Trump is found guilty by a jury on all 34 felony counts relating to falsifying business records , becoming the first U.S. president to be convicted of a crime. (CNN) 
 Hong Kong convicts fourteen activists and politicians guilty of subversion under its national security law . (Al Jazeera) 
 The United States Department of Labor files a lawsuit against Hyundai Motors over illegal use of child labor at the company's automobile factory in Montgomery , Alabama , amid a nationwide increase in child labor in the U.S. (Reuters) 
 2024 Minneapolis shooting 
 Four people, including a police officer, are killed in a mass shooting in Minneapolis , Minnesota , U.S. (AP) 
 Footballer Gerard Piqu is placed under official investigation for his alleged involvement in illegal payments in the relocation of the Supercopa de Espa a from Spain to Saudi Arabia . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 2024 pro-Palestinian protests on university campuses 
 Police dismantle and remove the student pro- Palestinian encampment at Wayne State University in Detroit , Michigan, U.S. ( The Detroit News ) (AP) 
 Science and technology 
 
 OpenAI removes online influence operations based in Russia , China , Iran , and Israel , due to the usage of AI by these operations to generate propaganda and fake content. (NPR) 
 Month May 2024 Previous day May 29 Next day May 31 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_May_30&oldid=1233453367 "