
 
 
 May 19, 2024 ( 2024-05-19 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2024 Democratic Republic of the Congo coup attempt 
 The Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo say that they foiled a coup by armed men in Kinshasa that killed two police officers and four attackers, including the coup's leader, Christian Malanga , a opposition leader of the United Congolese Party . Around 50 attackers, including Malanga's 20-year-old son and a US citizen from Maryland , are arrested. (AP) 
 2024 New Caledonia unrest 
 France deploys law enforcement to New Caledonia to regain control of the road to La Tontouta International Airport , which is currently controlled by protesters. (Reuters) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 At least six people are killed and 27 others are injured in a Russian double tap missile strike on a recreation area near Kharkiv . Separately, five people are killed and nine others are injured in a Russian strike using a multiple launch rocket system on two villages in Kupiansk Raion , Kharkiv Oblast . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Varzaqan helicopter crash 
 A Bell 212 helicopter crashes in Varzaqan , East Azerbaijan province , Iran , killing all the eight people on board, including President Ebrahim Raisi and Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian . (AP) 
 Two people are killed and five others are missing after a boat collision on the Danube river near Ver ce , Hungary . (Reuters) 
 Seven villages on the island of Halmahera , Indonesia , are forced to evacuate after the Mount Ibu volcano erupts. (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Argentina Spain relations 
 Spain recalls its ambassador to Argentina after President of Argentina Javier Milei calls Spanish Prime Minister Pedro S nchez 's wife Bego a G mez corrupt during a rally in Madrid and also refuses to meet with King Felipe VI . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Dominican Republic general election 
 President Luis Abinader wins re-election with 59% of the popular vote. (BBC Mundo) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 24 Premier League 
 Manchester City win the Premier League , becoming the first team in the 136-year history of the Football League to win four consecutive top-flight titles. ( The Guardian ) 
 Month May 2024 Previous day May 18 Next day May 20 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_May_19&oldid=1266377189 "