
 
 
 November 14, 2022 ( 2022-11-14 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Mali War 
 Operation Newcombe 
 The United Kingdom announces that it is withdrawing its troops from Mali citing "political instability" and the controversial relationship between the Assimi Go ta -led military junta and Russia 's Wagner Group . (BBC News) 
 Kurdish Iranian conflict 
 Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) strikes the headquarters of the Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan in Koy Sanjaq , Kurdistan Region , Iraq , with four missiles , killing at least one person. The IRGC says that it "targeted terrorist groups" with missiles and drones . (Al Jazeera) 
 Israeli forces kill a 15-year-old Palestinian girl in the occupied West Bank . ( Pagina12 ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Sixteen people are killed and three others are injured after a road accident in Bordj Badji Mokhtar , Algeria . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 France United Kingdom relations 
 English Channel migrant crossings 
 The United Kingdom and France sign a revised border control agreement to stop migrant boats from crossing the English Channel amid record numbers of migrants making the crossing. The agreement will increase the number of officers patrolling the French coast to 300 and have British police officers work with their French counterparts in control rooms and on beaches. (BBC News) 
 Iran European Union relations 
 Sanctions against Iran 
 The European Union adds 30 Iranian entities including news channel Press TV and cloud computing service Abr Arvan to its sanctions blacklist. (Taz) 
 Brazil , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Indonesia , the three countries with the largest tropical forest area , propose a trilateral alliance to collaborate on forest protection . (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2022 Istanbul bombing 
 Turkish interior minister S leyman Soylu says that 46 people, including the Syrian woman accused of planting the bomb, have been detained. S leyman also accuses the Kurdistan Workers' Party of being behind the attack. (Al Jazeera) 
 Month November 2022 Previous day November 13 Next day November 15 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_November_14&oldid=1122138939 "