
 
 
 January 22, 2023 ( 2023-01-22 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Germany Russia relations , Germany Poland relations 
 German Foreign Affairs Minister Annalena Baerbock says that Germany will not prevent Poland from sending Leopard 2 main battle tanks to Ukraine which Ukrainian officials say are pivotal to defeating Russian forces . (Reuters) 
 Arab Israeli conflict 
 The Lebanese Army declares a "state of alert" after stopping Israeli bulldozers and accompanying soldiers from approaching a border fence in Southern Lebanon . Peacekeeping forces from UNIFIL have also been deployed to the area. (AA) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Four people are killed and three others are feared dead in an apartment fire in Kobe , Japan . ( The Japan Times ) 
 At least 13 people are killed when a five-story building collapses in Aleppo , Syria , due to a leaking of water in the building's foundation. (Reuters) 
 Four people are killed and six others are injured in a fire at a two-story cottage in Qusar , Azerbaijan . (Xinhua) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Police in Cameroon find the mutilated body of prominent journalist Martinez Zogo , who had been kidnapped by unknown assailants five days ago, amid increasing violence against reporters in the country. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 New Zealand Labour Party leadership election 
 The ruling Labour Party unanimously elects education and public service minister Chris Hipkins to succeed Jacinda Ardern as the party's leader following Ardern's resignation three days ago. Governor-General Cindy Kiro is expected to appoint Hipkins as the 41st prime minister of New Zealand on January 25. (AP) 
 Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu dismisses health and interior minister Aryeh Deri from his cabinet after the Supreme Court ruled that Deri was barred from holding a position as a cabinet minister due to his conviction for tax offenses . (AFP via France 24) 
 Sports 
 
 In surfing , American lifeguard Luke Shepardson wins the 2023 edition of The Eddie at Waimea Bay on the north shore of Oahu , Hawaii , United States, after finishing with 89.1 points out of 90, defeating defending champion John John Florence . (AP) 
 Month January 2023 Previous day January 21 Next day January 23 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_January_22&oldid=1179318334 "