
 
 
 April 11, 2023 ( 2023-04-11 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Pazigyi massacre 
 At least 100 people are killed in an airstrike by the military junta in the village of Pazigyi, Kanbalu Township , Sagaing , in the third major attack against civilians since the junta's offensive in Sagaing began in February. It is the junta's deadliest attack since seizing power in 2021 . ( The New York Times ) 
 Armenia Azerbaijan border crisis 
 Fighting occurs near the Armenian village of Tegh , resulting in the deaths of four Armenian and three Azerbaijani soldiers. (Associated Press) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 Four police personnel and a terrorist are killed in an exchange of fire during a police operation in Kuchlak , Balochistan , Pakistan . (GNN) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 A Palestinian National Security Forces member and another Palestinian man are killed by Israeli soldiers in Elon Moreh , West Bank . (Al Jazeera) 
 Republican insurgency in Afghanistan 
 The Taliban say that the 313 Central Corps carried out an operation in Parwan Province , killing eight rebels, including a commander, of the National Resistance Front . (Arab News) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu announces that Jews will be prohibited from visiting the Temple Mount for the remainder of Ramadan , following raids by Israeli forces on the al-Aqsa Mosque last week. National security minister Itamar Ben-Gvir condemns the decision. (Al-Monitor) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Richmond, Indiana facility fire 
 A massive fire at a recycling plant in Richmond, Indiana , sends plumes of toxic smoke into the air and forces the evacuation of about 2,000 people in a half-mile radius of the fire. (CNN) 
 The Shiveluch volcano in the Russian Far East erupts, sending ash up to 20 kilometres (12 miles) into the air. (DW) 
 Hundreds of residents of Gangneung , South Korea , are forced to evacuate and a person is killed as more than 2,300 firefighters combat a spreading wildfire . (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 The World Health Organization reports the first death from H3N8 in a 56-year-old woman in Guangdong Province , China , who died March 16. The virus has been circulating since 2002, when it first appeared in North American waterfowl. ( The Guardian ) 
 International relations 
 
 Germany expels the ambassador of Chad , Mariam Ali Moussa , in a tit-for-tat decision following the expulsion of the German ambassador from Chad last week. (Reuters) 
 Sweden announces the indefinite closure of its embassy in Pakistan . ( The Pakistan Daily ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 President of Malawi Lazarus Chakwera pardons 200 prisoners, including a former minister convicted of corruption . (NyasaTimes) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Indonesian general election , PRIMA v. KPU 
 The Jakarta High Court overturns a lower court's order to delay Indonesia 's national elections for two years. (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 23 NHL season 
 In ice hockey , the Boston Bruins break the NHL record for the most points scored in a single season with 133, surpassing the 1976 77 Montreal Canadiens . This comes two days after winning their 63rd game, surpassing the 2018 19 Tampa Bay Lightning and 1995 96 Detroit Red Wings for the most wins in a regular season. (CBS Sports) (ESPN) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 10 Next day April 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_11&oldid=1149653300 "