
 
 
 January 30, 2024 ( 2024-01-30 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 Ukrainian forces say that they shot down a Russian Su-34 fighter jet over Luhansk Oblast . ( Kyiv Post ) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 2024 Sibi bombing 
 Four people are killed and six more injured during an explosion caused by a bomb at a Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf 's rally in Sibi , Balochistan , Pakistan . (Dawn) 
 Balochistan Liberation Army separatists launch rockets against security forces in Machh , Balochistan , Pakistan , killing a police officer and injuring 15 others, in response to Pakistan's Operation Marg Bar Sarmachar . Six militants are killed in the ensuing shootout . (AP) 
 Allied Democratic Forces insurgency 
 Twelve people are killed during an attack by Allied Democratic Forces militants against three villages in Beni , North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (AP) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Decommunization in Ukraine 
 Monuments and memorials removed following the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 The Lviv Oblast becomes the first oblast in Ukraine to remove all Soviet Union -era monuments . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A bus collides with a truck on a highway in Elota , Sinaloa , Mexico , killing 19 people and injuring 18 others. (AP) 
 Four people are killed and 15 others are rescued after a boat capsizes while travelling between Canc n and Isla Mujeres , Quintana Roo , Mexico . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Hockey Canada sexual assault scandal 
 One former and four current National Hockey League players who took part in the 2018 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships are charged with sexual assault in London , Ontario , Canada in connection with the 2018 investigation . (CBC) 
 Former Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan is sentenced to ten years in prison for leaking state secrets . (BBC News) 
 Month January 2024 Previous day January 29 Next day January 31 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_January_30&oldid=1240385335 "