
 
 
 July 4, 2022 ( 2022-07-04 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Ethiopian civil conflict 
 Oromo conflict 
 Prime Minister of Ethiopia Abiy Ahmed says that "citizens in the Oromia region s Qellen Wellega area have come under a massacre " by the Oromo Liberation Army . Lobbyists say that 150 160 Amhara civilians have been killed. (AP) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 Twenty-two people are killed and many others injured during a raid by insurgents in Kossi Province , Burkina Faso . (Reuters) 
 2022 Karakalpak protests 
 The government of Uzbekistan says 18 people have been killed and 243 others injured as protests appear to stabilise in Karakalpakstan , though concerns over the possibility of ethnic conflict remain. (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2019 present Sri Lankan economic crisis 
 Sri Lanka announces a week-long holiday amid fuel and food shortages caused by a worsening economic crisis . ( Business Standard ) 
 2018 2022 Turkish currency and debt crisis 
 Turkey records its highest inflation in 24 years, which is currently near 80%. ( The Guardian ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Hurricane Bonnie 
 El Salvador suspends classes as Hurricane Bonnie passes through Central America . Deaths have been reported in Nicaragua and El Salvador. (Infobae) 
 Sixteen people are killed when a bus plunges into a deep gorge in Kullu , Himachal Pradesh , India . (AP) 
 At least 300 people are injured by a chlorine gas leak in Qalat Sukkar , Iraq . (AP) 
 Italian prime minister Mario Draghi declares a state of emergency in five regions of Northern Italy due to a severe drought in the Po Valley . ( Deccan Herald ) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Nauru 
 Weightlifter Reanna Solomon dies from COVID-19, becoming Nauru 's first recorded fatality of the pandemic. ( Inside The Games ) 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Singapore 
 President of Singapore Halimah Yacob tests positive for COVID-19 . (CNA) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Mass shootings in the United States 
 Highland Park parade shooting 
 Six people are killed and more than two dozen others injured in a mass shooting in Highland Park, Illinois , United States, during an Independence Day parade. The suspected gunman is later taken into custody in nearby Lake Forest . (CNN) 
 One person is killed and four others injured in a mass shooting outside a nightclub in Sacramento , California , United States. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Papua New Guinean general election 
 Papua New Guineans go to the polls to elect their new government in a heavily guarded election. ( Barron's ) 
 Month July 2022 Previous day July 3 Next day July 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_July_4&oldid=1100110292 "