
 
 
 October 30, 2022 ( 2022-10-30 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kivu conflict 
 M23 offensive 
 M23 rebels capture the towns of Kiwanja and Rutshuru in North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo . In response, the Congolese government expels Rwanda 's ambassador, accusing the country of supporting the rebels. (Al Jazeera) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Five Israeli soldiers are injured during a vehicle-ramming attack at a checkpoint in Jericho , in the occupied West Bank . The perpetrator is shot dead by police . ( Haaretz ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Morbi bridge collapse 
 At least 141 people are killed in a collapse of a bridge over the Machchhu River in Morbi , Gujarat , India. More than 80 people have been rescued. (The Hindu) (BBC News) 
 Eleven people are killed during a crowd crush at a Fally Ipupa concert at the Stade des Martyrs in Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Russia United Kingdom relations 
 Russia announces sanctions on eleven British Overseas Territories , accusing them of "unfriendly actions" against Moscow. With these sanctions, the United Kingdom and all 14 British Overseas Territories are now on Russia's list of sanctioned territories . (Anadolu Agency) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Dover firebomb attack 
 A man throws firebombs at a centre for processing asylum seekers in Dover , Kent , UK , injuring two people before killing himself. (TheJournal.ie) 
 Crime in London 
 Two people are shot and killed in Brixton , London , while a bystander was knocked down and injured by the gunman's vehicle. No arrests have been made. (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Brazilian general election 
 Luiz In cio Lula da Silva narrowly wins election to Brazil 's presidency with 50.9% of the vote, defeating incumbent Jair Bolsonaro in the second-round run-off. ( Time ) (Sky News) 
 Month October 2022 Previous day October 29 Next day October 31 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_October_30&oldid=1119543679 "