
 
 
 March 26, 2024 ( 2024-03-26 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 2024 Shangla bombing 
 A suicide bomber attacks a bus in Shangla District , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan , killing five Chinese workers and their Pakistani driver. (AP) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Iran Israel conflict during the Syrian civil war 
 The Israeli Air Force bombs Deir ez-Zor Governorate , Syria , killing an Iranian Quds Force officer and 15 other militants. (AP) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Israeli warplanes launch airstrikes against Hezbollah targets near the towns of Ras Baalbek and Hermel in Baalbek-Hermel Governorate , Lebanon , killing at least three Hezbollah members. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Francis Scott Key Bridge collapse 
 The Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore , Maryland , United States , collapses after the container ship Dali strikes a bridge column, causing multiple vehicles to fall into the water below. (CBS News) 
 President Joe Biden says that the federal government will pay for the full cost of rebuilding the bridge. (WMAR-TV) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Abortion in the United States 
 The US Supreme Court announces that it will hear oral arguments on whether to restrict access to mifepristone , a commonly-used abortion pill . (BBC News) 
 The United Kingdom 's High Court of Justice grants WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange a stay of extradition to the United States , and demands that the US not consider the death penalty against Assange if he is sent to the US to face espionage charges . (AP) 
 Former Kyrgyzstan deputy Raimbek Matraimov is detained in Baku , Azerbaijan , and is extradited to Kyrgyzstan. (AKIPress) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 United States presidential election 
 Robert F. Kennedy Jr. 2024 presidential campaign 
 Robert F. Kennedy Jr. announces while campaigning that his Vice Presidential pick will be attorney Nicole Shanahan . (NBC News) 
 Month March 2024 Previous day March 25 Next day March 27 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_March_26&oldid=1215980440 "