
 
 
 June 13, 2024 ( 2024-06-13 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Leaders at the G7 summit agree to loan Ukraine US$50 billion and use interest from Russia 's frozen central bank assets as collateral for the loan. (AP) 
 United States and the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 U.S. President Joe Biden and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sign a ten-year security agreement to strengthen Ukraine's defensive capabilities. (AP) 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Hezbollah launches more than 200 rockets at northern Israel . In response, Israeli artillery strikes targets in Yaroun , Hanine , and Yater in southern Lebanon . ( The New York Times ) 
 The Israel Defense Forces launch incendiary devices across the Lebanese border with a trebuchet in order to prevent infiltration from the border. ( Newsweek ) 
 Allied Democratic Forces insurgency 
 Suspected Islamist rebels kill more than 20 people in Mayikengo, North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo . ( Times of India ) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Niger 
 Six Nigerien soldiers are killed in an attack on the Niger Benin Oil Pipeline in Dosso region , Niger. (Reuters) 
 A Russian warship and a nuclear-powered submarine conduct military drills in the Caribbean Sea simulating a missile strike on enemy ships after passing near the coast of Florida in order to reach Havana , Cuba . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 The general secretary of the miners' confederation in Mali announces that at least 22 miners have died in Kalana , Mali , following the collapse of a mine tunnel five days ago. (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2024 European heatwaves 
 A heatwave forces Greek authorities to close the Acropolis for visits during the afternoon. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Sudanese civil war 
 United Nations Security Council Resolution 2736 
 The United Nations Security Council votes 14 0, with Russia abstaining, to demand that the Rapid Support Forces stop their siege of Al-Fashir , Sudan , and that all parties maintain humanitarian access and protection for civilians under International Humanitarian Law . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 FDA v. Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine 
 The Supreme Court of the United States rules against efforts to restrict access to the abortion pill mifepristone , due to a lack of standing by the plaintiffs. (NBC News) 
 The European Court of Justice fines Hungary 200 million and imposes a daily 1 million penalty for failing to follow the European Union 's asylum laws and for illegally deporting migrants. (Al Jazeera) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 12 Next day June 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_13&oldid=1244333101 "