
 
 
 August 2, 2023 ( 2023-08-02 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 A Russian drone strike in Izmail , Odesa Oblast , damages administrative buildings and grain storage facilities. (Bloomberg) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Cryptocurrency legality 
 The Wall Street Journal discloses that cryptocurrency exchange Binance continues to do business within the People's Republic of China despite a formal prohibition of such activity by PRC authorities in 2021; WSJ says that more-or-less open trading totals US$90 billion per month. (Wall Street Journal) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Pacific typhoon season 
 Typhoon Doksuri 
 2023 China Doksuri floods 
 The death toll from the flooding in Beijing , China , which is the city's worst flooding in more than 140 years, increases to 21. (CP24) 
 Twenty people are killed, five others are missing, and nine others are rescued after a boat carrying charcoal and food capsizes in the Ugandan waters of Lake Victoria . (Al Jazeera) 
 A train collides with a bus near El Marqu s , Quer taro , Mexico , killing at least seven people and injuring seventeen others. (AP) 
 Two people are killed and two others are injured by an explosion at a house in Buena , New Jersey , United States . (NBC News via Yahoo! ) 
 A Cessna 152 aircraft crashes in Luna , Apayao , Philippines , during a training flight from Laoag , Ilocos Norte , to Tuguegarao , Cagayan , killing an Indian student pilot and his flight instructor . (AFP via Gulf News ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Pittsburgh synagogue shooting 
 The perpetrator of the 2018 mass shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , United States , is sentenced to death . (Reuters) 
 At least 10 people are killed in a police raid on a favela in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , days after 19 people in Bahia and 14 people in S o Paulo State were killed in other raids. (BBC News) 
 A man is charged after crashing a stolen Hyundai Tucson car that injured 10 pedestrians during a police chase near the Grand Central Terminal in New York City , U.S. (CBS News) ( New York Daily News ) 
 The Moldovan Interior Ministry reports that a man has been arrested by Chi in u police after ramming his vehicle near the Russian Embassy in the country . (Meduza) 
 Brazilian footballer Dani Alves is indicted in Spain on sexual assault charges . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Tunisian president Kais Saied appoints Ahmed Hachani as prime minister after dismissing Najla Bouden , the first female prime minister in the Arab world , from the role. (Reuters via Devdiscourse) 
 Former Thai prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra announces a return to Thailand after 15 years of exile in the United Arab Emirates . (DW) 
 Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and his wife Sophie Gr goire Trudeau announce their separation. (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup 
 Jamaica become the first Caribbean team to qualify for the knockout stage of a FIFA Women's World Cup after drawing 0 0 with Brazil in their final group stage match to finish second in their group. ( Forbes ) 
 Month August 2023 Previous day August 1 Next day August 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_August_2&oldid=1169352417 "