
 
 
 July 29, 2023 ( 2023-07-29 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian forces strike Zaporizhzhia , killing two civilians and injuring another, as well as damaging infrastructure . (CNN International) 
 Two people are killed and 20 injured in a Russian missile strike on civilian infrastructure in Sumy . ( The Kyiv Independent ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Sungai Kolok fireworks disaster 
 At least 12 people are killed and more than 115 others are injured in an explosion at a fireworks warehouse in Su-ngai Kolok , Thailand . (Al Jazeera) 
 2023 Canadian wildfires 
 Another firefighter is killed while combating a wildfire near Fort St. John , British Columbia , marking the third firefighter death in Canada 's wildfire season this year. (AFP via The Straits Times ) 
 International relations 
 
 Haitian crisis , Foreign relations of Haiti , Foreign relations of Kenya 
 Kenyan foreign minister Alfred Mutua announces the country 's plan to deploy 1,000 police officers to Haiti , leading a multinational force to assist local law enforcement and restoring stability, pending mandate approval from the United Nations Security Council and local authorities. (AFP via VOA) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Colombian police arrest the son of President Gustavo Petro and his ex-wife on charges of money laundering and illicit enrichment related to the alleged acceptance of funds from drug traffickers during Petro's 2022 presidential campaign . (AFP via France 24) 
 Indonesian police announce the arrest of three Bali -based immigration officers linked to an illicit organ trade network accused of trafficking 122 individuals to Cambodia for nephrectomies and selling their kidneys , earning an estimated IDR 24.4 billion ( US$ 1.58 million) since 2019. (AFP via CNA) 
 Iran announces that it will try 104 members of the People's Mujahedin of Iran in absentia , including its leader Maryam Rajavi , who is in exile in Albania . (Xinhua) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo facilitates an agreement between opposing Kenyan political alliances Azimio la Umoja and Kenya Kwanza in order to establish a joint committee aimed at resolving their "differences" following a series of violent protests against the government of President William Ruto . (AFP via New Vision ) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 World Aquatics Championships 
 American swimmer Katie Ledecky surpasses fellow American Michael Phelps for the most individual gold medals at the World Aquatics Championships after winning the gold in the women's 800 meter freestyle competition of the 2023 edition in Fukuoka , Japan. (Fox News) 
 Month July 2023 Previous day July 28 Next day July 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_July_29&oldid=1181309841 "