
 
 
 December 29, 2024 ( 2024-12-29 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Syrian civil war 
 Fall of the Assad regime 
 Syrian mass graves 
 Three mass graves associated with the Assad regime are discovered in Al-Qabou, Homs Governorate , Syria . (SOHR) 
 Operation Dawn of Freedom , Yazidi genocide 
 The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reports that a humanitarian crisis has developed in Manbij District , Aleppo Governorate , following its capture by Turkish -backed Syrian National Army forces and Turkish artillery fire , leading to continuous water scarcity , power outages , and basic needs shortages. (SOHR) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Seven civilians are killed and several others are injured in a Sudanese Armed Forces strike on residential areas in the southern part of Khartoum , Sudan . ( Sudan Tribune ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Azerbaijan Airlines Flight 8243 
 Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev says that Russia accidentally shot down the Azerbaijan Airlines plane, accusing Russia of trying to "hush up" the crash, and demanding from Russia a full admission of guilt, punishment for those responsible, and compensation for the victims. (AP) 
 2024 Sidama truck crash 
 At least 71 people are killed and four are injured when a passenger-carrying truck drives off a bridge into a river in Bona Zuria , Sidama Region , Ethiopia . ( The Guardian ) (Voice of America) 
 English Channel migrant crossings 
 Three migrants die attempting to cross the English Channel , with 45 others rescued and treated for hypothermia and four hospitalized. (BBC News) 
 Jeju Air Flight 2216 
 A Bangkok -departed Jeju Air Boeing 737-800 with 181 people on board crashes during landing at the Muan International Airport , in South Korea , killing 179 people and wounding two crew members. (Bloomberg) (YNA) (Euronews) 
 Three police officers are killed and two others are injured in a gas explosion at the police academy in Cairo , Egypt . (Reuters) 
 Two pilots are killed when their light aircraft crashes into the sea near Ras Al Khaimah , United Arab Emirates , shortly after takeoff from Al Jazeirah Airport . (Inquirer.net) 
 A tourist is killed and another is injured in a shark attack at a resort in Marsa Alam , Egypt. (Al Arabiya) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Brazilian nun Inah Canabarro Lucas becomes the world's oldest living person at 116 years old following the death of Japanese businesswoman Tomiko Itooka at the same age. (Sky News) 
 International relations 
 
 Cambodia Philippines relations 
 Cambodia pardons and repatriates 13 Filipino women who were convicted of human trafficking for participating in a surrogacy scheme prohibited under Cambodian law . (ABC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Chadian parliamentary election 
 Voters in Chad elect the 188 members of the National Assembly . (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 Croatian presidential election 
 Croatians vote to elect the President between incumbent Zoran Milanovi and seven other candidates. (Reuters) 
 2024 Georgian post-election protests 
 Mikheil Kavelashvili is inaugurated as the 6th President of Georgia , with outgoing president Salome Zourabichvili announcing that she would vacate her residence at the Orbeliani Palace in Tbilisi . Zourabichvili continues to claim that the new presidency is illegitimate and calls for continued protests. (Politico) (AP) 
 Death and state funeral of Jimmy Carter 
 Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter dies at the age of 100 in Plains , Georgia , United States . (BBC News) 
 At the conclusion of the annual year-end general meeting of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea , the appointment of Pak Thae-song to replace Kim Tok-hun in the post of Prime Minister of North Korea is announced. (Yonhap News Agency) 
 Month December 2024 Previous day December 28 Next day December 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_December_29&oldid=1268504844 "