
 
 
 February 25, 2024 ( 2024-02-25 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Red Sea crisis 
 2024 missile strikes in Yemen 
 The U.S. military launches strikes against 18 Houthi targets in Yemen . ( Politico ) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Two Hezbollah members are killed by an Israeli strike in al-Qusayr , Syria . ( Times of Israel ) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 Fifteen people are killed and two more injured during an attack on a Catholic Church in the village of Essakane, Oudalan Province , Burkina Faso . (BBC News) 
 Dozens of people are killed during an attack at a mosque in Natiaobani. (Al Jazeera) 
 Kurdish Turkish conflict , Iraq Turkey relations 
 Turkey launches an airstrike in northern Iraq , killing 4 alleged PKK members. ( H rriyet Daily ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Ten people are killed and five more injured after a ferry carrying workers sank in Monshat el-Kanater, Egypt . (Arab News) 
 Nine people are killed and 17 others are injured in a bus crash near Paulpietersburg , South Africa . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Israel Hamas war protests in the United States 
 Self-immolation of Aaron Bushnell 
 An active-duty United States Air Force member sets himself on fire outside the Israeli embassy in Washington, D.C. as a form of protest against the Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip and dies later that day. (BBC News) (NPR) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Belarusian parliamentary election 
 Voting begins in elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus , the All-Belarusian People's Assembly , and local councils, with only four pro-government parties permitted to run. Opposition activist Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya urges Belarusians to boycott the elections, stating that she will hold elections to the Coordination Council in May. ( Politico ) 
 Incumbent President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko announces that he will run in the next Belarusian presidential election . (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 EFL Cup final 
 Liverpool defeat Chelsea 1 0 after extra time at Wembley Stadium to win the 2023 24 EFL Cup . (BBC Sport) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 24 Next day February 26 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_25&oldid=1211191074 "