
 
 
 January 25, 2024 ( 2024-01-25 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Iran and the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 The United States Department of Commerce issues a $15 million bounty for information on Hossein Hatefi Ardakani , an Iranian businessman accused of procuring parts for drones assembled by Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps that were later sold to Russia . ( The Wall Street Journal ) 
 Moro conflict 
 Nine Dawlah Islamiyah militants are killed while four soldiers are injured during a shootout in the village of Taporug near Piagapo town in Lanao del Sur , Philippines . Two of the killed were suspected of being involved in the December 2023 Mindanao bombing ; six other militants are on the run. (AP) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Four police officers are killed in an ambush on a highway near Celaya , Guanajuato . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Greater S o Paulo Piper PA-24 Comanche crash [ pt ] 
 A Piper PA-24 Comanche crashes in the forest region between Rio Grande da Serra and Ribeir o Pires , in Greater S o Paulo , Brazil . Two people were killed. (O Globo) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment in the United States 
 Capital punishment in Alabama 
 The state of Alabama executes convicted murderer Kenneth Smith using nitrogen hypoxia , the first time the technique is used. ( The New York Times ) 
 Assassination of Vladlen Tatarsky 
 A court in Russia sentences Darya Trepova to 27 years in prison for the assassination of Vladlen Tatarsky in April 2023. (AP) 
 Kyoto Animation arson attack 
 A court in Japan sentences Shinji Aoba to death for a 2019 arson attack on a Kyoto Animation studio in Fushimi-ku, Kyoto , which killed 36 people. (CNA) 
 Taiwan officially begins extending its compulsory military service from four months to one year amid increased tensions with China . (Reuters) 
 South Korean politician Bae Hyun-jin is attacked and hospitalized in Seoul . ( Korea JoongAng Daily ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 NASA announces the retirement of Mars Helicopter Ingenuity after the vehicle sustained damage to one of its rotors. ( The New York Times ) 
 Month January 2024 Previous day January 24 Next day January 26 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_January_25&oldid=1206598577 "