
 
 
 July 8, 2023 ( 2023-07-08 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2023 Sudan conflict 
 Battle of Omdurman 
 At least 22 people are killed by an airstrike in Omdurman , Sudan . (Reuters) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Battle of Donbas 
 Russian forces shell Lyman in Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine , killing eight people and injuring 13 others, according to governor Pavlo Kyrylenko . (BBC News) 
 Sistan and Baluchestan insurgency 
 Four insurgents and two officers are killed at a police station in Zahedan , Sistan and Baluchestan province , Iran . (Iran International) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Farewell Yellow Brick Road 
 English musician Elton John , the fourth best-selling music artist of all time , performs his final concert at the Tele2 Arena in Stockholm , Sweden , after touring for more than 50 years. (Global News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Murrieta plane crash 
 A plane crashes in Murrieta , California , United States , killing all six people aboard. ( Forbes ) 
 One person is killed and seven others are missing due to a landslide that buried a highway in Yichang , Hubei , China . (Reuters) 
 Pemex , the Mexican oil company, estimates that Friday's fire on an offshore drilling platform has led to the loss of 700,000 barrels of oil production thus far. (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Deforestation of the Amazon rainforest 
 The heads of government of the Amazon basin countries convene in Leticia , Amazonas , Colombia , to strategize conserving the Amazon rainforest . (AFP via The Business Standard ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Shah Cheragh attack 
 Iran executes two men for their involvement in a mass shooting at Shah Cheragh in Shiraz , Fars province . (CNN) 
 LGBT rights in Georgia 
 Organizers cancel a pride festival in Tbilisi , Georgia , due to violent interventions by far-right groups which led to clashes with law enforcement . (CNN) 
 Four people are killed and five are injured in a series of shootings in Chicago , Illinois , United States. (WLS-TV) 
 A correspondent for the Mexican newspaper La Jornada is found dead in Tepic , Nayarit , a day after being reported missing. (AFP via Philippine Daily Inquirer ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 June 2023 Greek legislative election 
 The New Democracy party, led by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis , secures a vote of confidence in Parliament to begin its second four-year term. (AP) 
 Month July 2023 Previous day July 7 Next day July 9 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_July_8&oldid=1219540394 "