
 
 
 January 11, 2023 ( 2023-01-11 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Order of battle for the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces Valery Gerasimov is appointed commander of the Joint Group of Forces participating in the war with Ukraine . Generals Oleg Salyukov , Alexei Kim , and Sergei Surovikin , who previously held this position, become his deputies. (Fontanka.ru) 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 Islamic State Taliban conflict 
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan bombing 
 An Islamic State suicide bomber blows himself up at the entrance of the foreign ministry offices in Kabul , Afghanistan , killing at least 20 people and many others injured. (Al Jazeera) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2022 Uganda Ebola outbreak 
 Ugandan Health Minister Jane Aceng declares an end to the outbreak of Sudan ebolavirus in the country that has killed 77 people since September. (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Japan United States relations 
 United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken announces that Japan and the United States will include space warfare as a trigger for the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security . (AFP via GMA News Online) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Five people are killed and 13 others injured when a man rams his vehicle into a crowd in Guangzhou , China . (BBC News) 
 Six people are injured in a mass stabbing at the Gare du Nord train station in Paris , France . The attacker is shot by police, arrested, and hospitalized. (BBC News) 
 Joe Biden classified documents incident 
 Aides to the President of the United States Joe Biden discover a second set of classified documents besides those found on Monday in a Washington, D.C. office. The White House acknowledges the discovery. (NBC News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 2023 FAA system outage 
 For the first time since 9/11 , the FAA issues a nationwide ground stop in the United States following the failure of the FAA's NOTAM system. (CNBC) 
 The launch of an unmanned ABL Space Systems RS1 rocket fails at the Pacific Spaceport Complex Alaska in Kodiak , Alaska , United States . The rocket crashes during the launch, damaging the launch platform and destroying the rocket and its cargo. ( Anchorage Daily News ) 
 The United Kingdom 's postal service Royal Mail tells people to stop sending mail abroad due to a "cyber incident" that is causing severe disruption to mail delivery, with "minor delays" to mail coming into the UK also being reported. It is later confirmed to be a ransomware attack from a Russia -linked hacker group . (BBC News) 
 Month January 2023 Previous day January 10 Next day January 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_January_11&oldid=1165557221 "