
 
 
 October 18, 2024 ( 2024-10-18 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Killing of Yahya Sinwar 
 Hamas confirms that its leader , Yahya Sinwar , was killed in action during a shootout with Israeli soldiers two days ago in Rafah , Gaza Strip , Palestine . (Al Jazeera) 
 Moro conflict 
 Seven people are killed following a dispute between two rival factions of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front , in Parang , Maguindanao del Norte , Philippines . (Rappler) 
 2024 Neot HaKikar shooting 
 Two gunmen entering Israel from Jordan are killed in a shootout with border guards near the Dead Sea . (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Cuba blackout 
 A nationwide power outage occurs in Cuba following a critical failure at the Antonio Guiteras power station in Puerto Padre , Las Tunas Province . (CNN) 
 A bus carrying Japanese tourists crashed into a ditch in Afyonkarahisar province Turkey , injuring 22. [ 1 ] 
 International relations 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Foreign involvement in the Russian invasion of Ukraine , North Korea Ukraine relations 
 The South Korean National Intelligence Service says that North Korea has started sending troops to fight with Russia in Ukraine . South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol calls for a security meeting and says the international community must respond with "all available means". (BBC) 
 Swiss neutrality 
 Switzerland joins the European Sky Shield Initiative to contribute to building a pan-European air and missile defense system , while also allowing the nation to train and purchase military systems with other European nations . (Reuters) 
 Western Sahara conflict 
 Morocco rejects a proposal put forward by the UN envoy for Western Sahara Staffan de Mistura that would partition Western Sahara with the northern part being annexed by Morocco and the southern part forming an independent state controlled by the Polisario Front . (Atalayar) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Four people, including the gunman, are killed in a school shooting in Heli polis , Bahia , Brazil . (CNN Brazil) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Kenya 's National Assembly unanimously approves Interior Secretary Kithure Kindiki as the new Deputy President following his nomination by President William Ruto . However, the High Court temporarily suspends the impeachment of former Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua in order to hear challenges. (AP) 
 Clashes between protestors and police break out over demonstrations of arrested activists in Nasiriyah , Iraq . (CityNews) 
 Month October 2024 Previous day October 17 Next day October 19 
 
 ^ https://apnews.com/article/turkey-japanese-tourists-bus-accident-441ea260b0328d635762e2f06d5956db 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_October_18&oldid=1285535795 "