
 
 
 June 18, 2022 ( 2022-06-18 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine offensive 
 Donetsk People's Republic authorities accuse Ukrainian forces of shelling the Zasyadko coal mine and trapping 77 miners. (Al Arabiya) 
 2022 Russia Ukraine peace negotiations 
 Ukrainian delegate Davyd Arakhamia says that Ukraine is planning to resume ceasefire negotiations with Russia this August. ( Finger Lake Times ) 
 Kashmir conflict 
 Insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir 
 The dead body of an Indian police official is found in a paddy field in Pampore , Jammu and Kashmir . Islamist militants are suspected to be responsible for the attack. (Reuters) 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 Islamic State kill a Sikh and a Taliban member in an attack on a gurdwara in Kabul . ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 Mali War 
 At least 20 people die in an attack in Anchawadi commune , Mali . (Voice of America) 
 Nyamagabe bus shooting 
 Two people are killed and six are injured after suspected militants attacked a bus in southwestern Rwanda . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least two people are killed by flooding in Guangxi , China . (Macau Business) 
 One person is killed in a fire at a petrochemical plant in Shanghai , China . (Reuters) 
 Wildfires spread across northeastern Spain amid a heatwave, with the highest temperatures expected to be between 40 to 42 C (104 to 108 F) in the region of Zaragoza . (NDTV) 
 An Iranian F-14 crashes near Isfahan , with both pilots successfully ejecting from the aircraft. (Tasnim News Agency) 
 A firefighter is killed and five other people are injured after a building collapses in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania , United States . (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in the United States 
 COVID-19 vaccination in the United States 
 The U.S. CDC unanimously votes to approve COVID-19 vaccines for children under the age of five, including babies. (NBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 President of Ecuador Guillermo Lasso declares a state of exception in Quito and other parts of the country amid ongoing protests. (Reuters via SwissInfo) 
 Science and technology 
 
 2022 European heat waves 
 Climate change in France 
 France sees several June all-time temperature records beaten by over 1 C (1.8 F) in an exceptionally strong heat wave. Biarritz 's temperature rises to 42.9 C (109.2 F), the absolute record for the seaside resort and 2.3 C (4.1 F) above the previous all-time record set in August. ( L'Ind pendant ) ( L'Ind pendant 2) 
 Month June 2022 Previous day June 17 Next day June 19 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_June_18&oldid=1099034256 "