
 
 
 January 4, 2025 ( 2025-01-04 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign , Journalists killed during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 A war correspondent for the Russian newspaper Izvestia is killed in a Ukrainian drone strike in Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 The Russian Armed Forces claims to have shot down eight American ATACMS missiles fired by Ukraine and vows retaliation. (CNN) 
 Haitian crisis , Guatemala Haiti relations 
 Gang war in Haiti 
 Another 75 Guatemalan Army troops arrive in Haiti , joining 75 that arrived yesterday, to combat escalating gang violence. (CNN) (BBC News) 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 At least 70 Palestinians are killed and 14 others are reported missing in Israeli airstrikes on Gaza City and Khan Younis in the Gaza Strip . (Middle East Monitor) ( India Today ) 
 Kivu conflict 
 M23 offensive 
 M23 rebels capture the strategic town of Katale in Masisi Territory , North Kivu Province , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (Chimp Reports) 
 Anglophone Crisis 
 Gunmen from Nigeria kill at least five Cameroonian soldiers and injure several others in Bakinjaw, Southwest Region , Cameroon . (Reuters) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 One person is killed and 35 others are injured, including soldiers , in a car bombing in Turbat , Balochistan , Pakistan . The Balochistan Liberation Army claims responsibility for the attack, which states it targeted a military convoy. (AP) 
 Boko Haram insurgency 
 The Nigerian Army repels an ambush in Borno State and kills 34 Islamist militants in a gun battle in which six soldiers also die. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 January 2025 North American storm complex 
 Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear declares a state of emergency for Kentucky , United States , amidst the upcoming winter storm. (WNKY) 
 At least eight people are killed and 15 others are injured in a fire at a market in Zhangjiakou , Hebei , China . (Al Jazeera) 
 The Taiwanese Coast Guard intercepts the Cameroon -registered container ship Shunxin39 after it was suspected of damaging an undersea cable north of Taiwan yesterday. (Taiwan News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Myanmar state media reports that the ruling military junta will release 5,864 prisoners, including 180 foreigners, under an amnesty marking the country's national independence day . (Reuters) 
 The Danish Security and Intelligence Service and police announce an investigation into sightings of unknown drones reportedly flying over K ge , Region Zealand . (DW) 
 Four teenagers are arrested in Yekaterinburg , Russia , for allegedly planning a terrorist attack in the city. Two of the suspects are also accused of being involved in an arson attack on a Ministry of Internal Affairs vehicle in December. (DW) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 2025 Georgian protests , 2024 2025 Georgian constitutional crisis 
 Georgia 's Ministry of Internal Affairs announces the expulsion of 91 foreign citizens, including 25 who participated in anti- Georgian Dream and pro- EU protests. (TVP World) 
 2024 2025 Austrian government formation 
 Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer announces his resignation after talks on forming the new post-election coalition government between his Austrian People's Party , the Social Democratic Party and NEOS collapsed. (Euronews) 
 Month January 2025 Previous day January 3 Next day January 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_January_4&oldid=1272914285 "