
 
 
 November 23, 2023 ( 2023-11-23 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Al-Shifa Hospital siege 
 The Israel Defense Forces detain Mohammad abu Salmiya, the director of the Al-Shifa Hospital , and several doctors working under him, after a convoy belonging to the World Health Organization was stopped by Israeli soldiers . Israel accuses the director and the doctors of having sheltered Hamas fighters in the hospital. ( The Guardian ) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 CENTCOM reports that the USS Thomas Hudner has shot down "multiple" Israel-bound attack drones launched from Houthi -controlled Yemen over the Red Sea . No injuries or damage are reported. ( The Hill ) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Southern Ukraine campaign 
 A Russian cluster munition strike in Chornobaivka , Kherson , kills at least three civilians . Five people are also injured by Russian artillery shelling with more than 60 residential buildings reportedly damaged. (AP via ABC News) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Modern immigration to the United Kingdom 
 The Office for National Statistics reports that net migration to the United Kingdom reached a record of 745,000 in 2022, with the vast majority of arrivals being from non- EU countries. (Sky News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2023 Chinese pneumonia outbreak 
 The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that Chinese authorities have not detected any unusual or new pathogens in the recent increase of respiratory diseases among children in northern China . The WHO continues to monitor the situation. (AFP via NDTV) 
 Mpox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
 The World Health Organization reports the first sexual transmission case of mpox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in a Belgium resident who traveled there. (Al Jazeera) 
 International relations 
 
 Japan South Korea relations 
 The High Court of Seoul , South Korea , orders Japan to pay compensation of 200 million (around 22 million or US$ 154,000) to 16 comfort women , overturning a previous ruling that denied the women's claims due to sovereign immunity . (AFP via Manila Bulletin ) 
 North Korea South Korea relations 
 North Korea terminates its 2018 agreement with South Korea, citing escalations in military provocations as well as plans to deploy military forces along the Military Demarcation Line . (AFP via Le Monde ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Dublin riot 
 Rioting occurs in Dublin , Ireland , following a mass stabbing outside a school which injured a woman and three children. Garda Commissioner Drew Harris blames " far-right hooligans " for the unrest. (AP) 
 Chad 's junta parliament approves an amnesty law, terminating prosecutions and convictions related to the 2022 anti-government protest deaths. (AFP via Hindustan Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Pro- Palestine protesters disrupt the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City , United States , minutes after the start of the parade. The parade resumes after the protesters are taken into custody. (ABC News) 
 Cubans hold a pro-Palestine protest at the Embassy of the United States in Havana , Cuba . (Reuters) 
 Month November 2023 Previous day November 22 Next day November 24 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_November_23&oldid=1200531676 "