
 
 
 September 30, 2022 ( 2022-09-30 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 War crimes in the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian attack on civilian convoy in Zaporizhzhia 
 Russian forces launch 16 missiles at areas near the city of Zaporizhzhia , including a gathering point for civilians preparing to cross into Russian-occupied territory , where at least 25 people are killed and 50 others are injured. (NBC News) 
 Ukraine NATO relations 
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy requests fast-track NATO membership following the Russian annexation of Southern and Eastern Ukraine . (BBC News) 
 2022 Russian mobilization 
 Uzbekistan says that it will not deport Russians fleeing conscription . (Reuters) 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 September 2022 Kabul school bombing 
 Twenty-six people are killed and 56 others are injured by a suicide bomber at a school in Dashte Barchi , Kabul , Afghanistan . (CNN) 
 Papua conflict 
 Four people are killed when armed rebels open fire on civilians in West Papua , Indonesia . (Reuters) 
 September 2022 Burkina Faso coup d' tat 
 Junta leader Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba is removed from office in a coup d' tat after gunfire in the Burkinab capital of Ouagadougou . Coup leader Ibrahim Traor imposes a curfew, suspends all political civil society activities as well as the Constitution, and closes all land and air borders. (AP) (France24) 
 Mahsa Amini protests 
 Nineteen people are killed and 32 more injured when three gunmen attack a police station and open fire in a mass shooting in Zahedan , Iran . (Al Jazeera) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 2022 inflation surge , Economy of the Netherlands 
 Inflation in the Netherlands increases to 17% amid a substantial increase in energy and fuel prices. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Hurricane Ian makes its fourth landfall in South Carolina , after devastating portions of Florida and Cuba . (National Hurricane Center) 
 Two people are killed and 25 others are injured by a 5.9 magnitude earthquake in Northern Sumatra , Indonesia . (Reuters) 
 Eight people are killed and three others are missing after flooding in T chira , Venezuela . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Foreign relations of Nicaragua 
 The Nicaraguan government announced that it had severed diplomatic relations with the Netherlands. 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Russian annexation of Southern and Eastern Ukraine 
 Russian president Vladimir Putin signs accession treaties to annex the occupied Ukrainian territories to Russia. However, the accession treaties must be ratified by both houses of the Russian parliament before becoming effective under Russian law . (Reuters) (Reuters 2) 
 Mexican president Andr s Manuel L pez Obrador confirms that the Mexican Secretariat of National Defense was hacked and that leaked data included information about the president's health issues and other national security issues. (Proceso) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 29 Next day October 1 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_30&oldid=1116235993 "