
 
 
 December 11, 2022 ( 2022-12-11 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2022 North Kosovo crisis 
 Serb protesters in Northern Kosovo block main roads for a second day following a nighttime exchange of fire with police after the arrest of a Serb former policeman, amid rising tensions between authorities and Kosovo 's Serb minority. (Reuters) 
 Kosovo's Prime Minister Albin Kurti states that "the barricades from masked criminals in the north must be removed immediately". (Al Jazeera) 
 Serbian President Aleksandar Vu i calls an emergency meeting of the National Security Council . After the meeting, Vu i states that "it is important to call on Serbs and Albanians to keep the peace" and that he "made certain decisions and gave orders". ( Politika ) 
 Afghanistan Pakistan border skirmishes 
 Six Pakistani civilians and a Taliban fighter are killed during a shootout between Taliban forces and Pakistani soldiers over a dispute on construction of new checkpoints on the Afghan side of the Chaman border. Seventeen Pakistani civilians, ten Taliban fighters and three Afghan civilians are also injured. (Al Jazeera) 
 December 2022 Peruvian protests 
 Two people are killed and four more are injured as pro- Pedro Castillo protests in Peru escalate. ( The Guardian ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Three children die and another is critically injured after falling through the ice on the frozen Babbs Mill Lake during a cold wave in Kingshurst , West Midlands , United Kingdom . (BBC News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 South Sudan declares a measles outbreak with a spokesperson for the Ministry of Health reporting that there are currently 2,471 cases and 31 deaths from measles reported in 22 counties. (Xinhua) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Pan Am Flight 103 
 Federal authorities in the United States announce the arrest of a Libyan man charged in relation with the Lockerbie bombing in 1988, which killed 270 people. (CNN) 
 Four people are killed and three others are injured in a mass shooting at a bar in Rome , Lazio , Italy . (Reuters) (La Repubblica) 
 Three people are killed and four others are injured during a car chase between the Carabinieri and another vehicle in Alessandria , Piedmont , Italy . (Ansa) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Artemis 1 
 The uncrewed Artemis 1 mission, the first of the NASA 's Artemis program , ends with a splashdown of the Orion capsule in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Baja California at 17:40 UTC. (CBC News) 
 Month December 2022 Previous day December 10 Next day December 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_December_11&oldid=1127944083 "