
 
 
 April 5, 2025 ( 2025-04-05 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Kryvyi Rih strikes 
 The Ukrainian government declares April 6 as a day of mourning following yesterday's Russian missile strike on Kryvyi Rih in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast , Ukraine , that killed twenty people, one of the deadliest strikes since the start of the invasion. ( de Volkskrant ) 
 Somali Civil War 
 2025 Shabelle offensive 
 Colonel Nur Farey, the senior Somali military commander of the 14th brigade, is assassinated by a man believed to be an al-Shabaab militant in Addow Dibille near Afgoye , Lower Shabelle , Somalia . (Hiiraan Online) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Tariffs in the second Trump administration , Executive orders in the second presidency of Donald Trump 
 Executive Order 14257 
 The first of two tariff rounds go into effect in the United States , containing a 10% blanket tariff on every import into the country. The second round of country-specific tariffs is scheduled to go into effect on April 9. (Reuters) 
 UK -based multinational car manufacturer Jaguar Land Rover suspends vehicle exports to the United States for a month to evaluate the impact of Trump's tariffs on the automotive industry . (Fox Business) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Two people are killed after a caravan catches fire at a campsite in Skegness , Lincolnshire , England . (Sky News) 
 Two reporters are killed after a metal structure collapses during the Festival Ceremonia in Mexico City , Mexico . ( USA Today ) 
 Two tour buses collide along the Ch Expressway in Hachi ji , Tokyo , injuring 47 people. [ 1 ] 
 International relations 
 
 Israel United Kingdom relations 
 Israel blocks two British Labour Party MPs from entering the country. (Reuters) 
 South Sudan United States relations , Immigration policy of the second Donald Trump administration 
 U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio announces the revocation of all visas of South Sudanese passport holders, citing "the failure of South Sudan's transitional government to accept the return of its repatriated citizens in a timely manner." (BBC) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Protests against the second presidency of Donald Trump 
 "Hands Off" protests against President Donald Trump occur across the United States. ( The New York Times ) 
 Sports 
 
 2025 Grand National 
 In horse racing , Nick Rockett , rode by Irish jockey Patrick Mullins , wins the 2025 Grand National at Aintree Racecourse in England . (BBC Sport) 
 Month April 2025 Previous day April 4 Next day April 6 
 
 ^ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_in_Japan?utm_source=chatgpt.com#cite_note-30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_April_5&oldid=1285471335 "