
 
 
 September 27, 2023 ( 2023-09-27 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2023 Azerbaijani offensive in Nagorno-Karabakh 
 Exodus of Armenians 
 The number of refugees fleeing from Artsakh to Armenia increases to 50,243, more than a third of the region's population. (France 24) 
 Former State Minister of Artsakh Ruben Vardanyan is arrested by Azerbaijan after attempting to cross the border into Armenia. (BBC News) 
 Azerbaijan reports that 192 of its troops were killed and more than 500 others were injured during last week's offensive in Nagorno-Karabakh . (ABC News) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Authorities in the Mexican state of Nuevo Le n find at least twelve bodies dumped on roads near Monterrey , likely related to a drug cartel operating in Tamaulipas . (CBS News) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 2023 Hollywood labor disputes 
 2023 Writers Guild of America strike 
 The Writers Guild of America strike ends after nearly 22 weeks, following a agreement reached between union negotiators and Hollywood 's studios and streaming services. (CNN) 
 Waheeda Rehman is awarded the Dadasaheb Phalke Award for her work in Hindi cinema . (Hindustan Times) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Documents posted by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration indicate that South Korean automakers Hyundai and Kia have recalled over 3.4 million vehicles in the United States over concerns of fire risks, and urge owners to park these vehicles outdoors. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 List of earthquakes in 2023 
 A magnitude 4.2 earthquake strikes the Phlegraean Fields supervolcano near Naples , Italy , the strongest earthquake to strike Campi Flegrei in 40 years. Experts say that an eruption of the supervolcano is not imminent, but called for an inspection of buildings in the immediate area. (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 North Korea United States relations 
 North Korea deports U.S. soldier Travis King , who crossed the DMZ into North Korea in July, back into U.S. custody. ( The New York Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Five people, all members of the same Arab family, are shot dead in Basmat Tab'un , Israel . (Reuters) 
 Germany bans the neo-Nazi movement Artgemeinschaft for reportedly targeting children and young people with racial propaganda . (BBC News) 
 
 Video games 
 
 Counter-Strike 2 released. 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 26 Next day September 28 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_27&oldid=1247915966 "