
 
 
 September 7, 2023 ( 2023-09-07 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Anglophone Crisis 
 Three civilians are killed when armed separatists attack vehicles in Muea , Southwest Region , Cameroon . Armed militants stopped cars, shot at passengers and set vehicles on fire during the attack. (Reuters) (Africanews) 
 Ethnic violence in South Sudan 
 Two farmers are killed and one is injured after an attack by unknown armed men in Eastern Equatoria , South Sudan . The victims were returning home when the attack occurred. (Radio Tamazuj) 
 Islamist insurgency in the Sahel 
 Mali War 
 September 2023 Mali attacks 
 Islamist insurgents attack a military camp and a riverboat in northeast Mali . Sixty-four people are killed during the attacks, including 49 civilians and fifteen troops. (BBC News) (Reuters) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Six civilians are shot dead on a fronton court near the downtown of Guadalupe , Zacatecas. Hours later other armed attacks leave two more people dead. ( El Sol de Zacatecas ) ( El Sol de Zacatecas ) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 Ukrainian forces enter the deserted villages of Stroivka and Topoli at the Russia Ukraine border in Kharkiv Oblast . The villages were abandoned by Russia after the 2022 Kharkiv counteroffensive but Ukraine was previously unable to enter the villages due to the presence of mines in the area. ( The Kyiv Independent ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 China bans the use of iPhones for government officials resulting in the market value of Apple Inc. stock declining by $ 200 billion in the past two days. (CNN) (Bloomberg) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Southeast Europe floods 
 The death toll from the floods in Turkey , Bulgaria , and Greece increases to 15 after five more people are found dead in Greece. (Al Jazeera) 
 The main highway between Athens and Thessaloniki is closed due to flooding. Passenger train service between the two cities is also suspended. (NOS) 
 2023 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Hurricane Lee strengthens into a category 5 hurricane , with maximum sustained winds of 165 mph, traveling west-northwest towards the Leeward Islands and Puerto Rico . (NPR) 
 International relations 
 
 United Kingdom European Union relations 
 The United Kingdom announces that it will rejoin Horizon Europe , a European Union scientific research initiative. The UK had been excluded for the past three years due to disagreement over the Northern Ireland Protocol . (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Aftermath of the January 6 United States Capitol attack 
 Criminal proceedings in the January 6 United States Capitol attack 
 Former Trump administration economic adviser Peter Navarro is found guilty of contempt of Congress for failing to comply with a congressional subpoena issued by the January 6 committee investigating the US capitol attack . (NBC News) 
 A man is arrested in Kigali , Rwanda , after fourteen people are found dead at his house. The suspected serial killer lured his victims to his house from nearby bars . (Al Jazeera) 
 Japanese pop agency Johnny & Associates publicly admits and apologizes for sexual abuses on several hundred minors committed by its late founder Johnny Kitagawa . (CNN) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 6 Next day September 8 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_7&oldid=1256033245 "