
 
 
 January 22, 2024 ( 2024-01-22 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Red Sea crisis 
 2024 missile strikes in Yemen 
 The United States and United Kingdom launch new airstrikes on Houthi military infrastructure in Yemen , including an underground storage site, anti-ship missiles , and radars. The UK confirms that four RAF Typhoons took part in the strikes. (BBC News) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy signs a decree recognizing some Russian territories, including parts of Bryansk Oblast and Krasnodar Krai , as historically inhabited by Ukrainians . (The Kyiv Independent) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Ayodhya dispute 
 Ram Mandir Prana Pratishtha 
 The Ram Mandir temple in Ayodhya , Uttar Pradesh , India , is inaugurated by India's prime minister, Narendra Modi . (CNN) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least 18 people are killed after a truck plunged into a ravine in Kasangulu , Kongo Central , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (AP) 
 A landslide in Zhaotong , Yunnan , China , kills at least eight people and buries 47 others. Over 200 people are evacuated. (CNA) 
 A helicopter carrying seven people crashes in Terrace , British Columbia , Canada , leaving 3 dead and 4 others injured. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Joliet shootings 
 Seven people are killed in two separate shootings at two homes in Joliet, Illinois , United States . Later the same day, the suspect fatally shoots himself in Texas . An eighth person was also killed by the same gunman a day before. (BBC News) 
 Standoff at Eagle Pass 
 Governor of Texas Greg Abbott refuses to follow a court order allowing Border Patrol agents to enter Shelby Park , an area in the town of Eagle Pass which the Texas National Guard had seized control over earlier this month. (The Independent) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Joseph Boakai is inaugurated as President of Liberia , succeeding outgoing president George Weah . (BBC News) 
 Month January 2024 Previous day January 21 Next day January 23 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_January_22&oldid=1237409268 "