
 
 
 March 8, 2025 ( 2025-03-08 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Syrian civil war 
 Western Syria clashes 
 2025 massacres of Syrian Alawites , March 2025 Western Syria clashes 
 The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reports that groups attributed to the Syrian Ministry of Defense have killed over 750 Alawite civilians across several massacres in western Syria . (SOHR) (CTV News) 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 Three Palestinians are killed in Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip , two by a drone strike in Rafah and one by gunfire in al-Tannour, Rafah Governorate , which violates the 2025 ceasefire . (Al Jazeera) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 A Russian ballistic missile strike on Dobropillia , Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine , kills at least eleven people and injures 37 others. (Reuters) 
 A Russian Shahed drone strike on a business park in Bohodukhiv , Kharkiv Oblast , kills three people and wounds seven others. (Ukrinform) 
 Somali Civil War 
 2025 Shabelle offensive 
 Al Shabaab seizes the town of Cadale and some villages including Bushra Sheekh, Ceel Xarar and Xaruur, around 70 km (43 mi) of Mogadishu . Somali President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud asks Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed for help. Ethiopia sends ten thousand ENDF troops near the Ethiopia Somalia border . ( Idil News ) 
 Dozens of people are killed, including a senior police commander , as heavy fighting breaks out after Al-Shabaab fighters attack the Police Force . Al-Shabaab claims to have taken over new areas of Al-Kawthar and Boos-Hareeri in Middle Shabelle region, Hirshabelle State , Somalia . (Idil News) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Canada China trade war 
 China announces that it will implement 100% tariffs on several Canadian agricultural exports , including rapeseed and peas , and 25% tariffs on pork and aquacultural products will be implemented on March 20 in retaliation against earlier tariffs instituted by Canada on Chinese electric vehicles and metal exports . (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 25 Australian region cyclone season 
 Cyclone Alfred 
 One person is confirmed killed and thirteen others are injured in floods caused by Cyclone Alfred as it passes through Queensland and New South Wales , Australia . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Eight people are injured, including two critically, in a vehicle-ramming attack at a CarMax car dealership in Inglewood , California , United States . (NBC News) 
 Sports 
 
 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 2025 
 Two ski jumpers from the Norwegian ski jumping team, Marius Lindvik and Johann Andr Forfang , are disqualified for cheating and Lindvik loses the silver in the men's individual normal hill in Gran sen , Trondheim . ( Kronen Zeitung ) 
 Month March 2025 Previous day March 7 Next day March 9 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_March_8&oldid=1280371236 "