
 
 
 January 3, 2024 ( 2024-01-03 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War , Turkey Ukraine relations 
 Turkey denies access to the Black Sea for two Royal Navy minehunters saying their transit of the Bosporus and Dardanelles straits would be in violation of the Montreux Convention of 1936 . ( The Independent ) 
 Ukraine and Russia complete their first prisoner exchange in nearly five months, releasing over 200 people on each side, facilitated by mediation from the United Arab Emirates . (Reuters) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Operation 1027 
 The Ta'ang National Liberation Army claimed to have taken control of the town of Mongngaw in Kyaukme Township in Shan State. (Irrawaddy) 
 Colombian conflict 
 The Clan del Golfo detonate explosives at an army encampment in Turbo , Antioquia Department , Colombia , killing a soldier and injuring 12 others. (ABC News) 
 Kerman bombings 
 Eighty nine people are killed and 284 others injured in a double bombing in Kerman , Iran , during a ceremony marking the fourth anniversary of the assassination of Qasem Soleimani . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Sierra Leone coup attempt 
 A court in Freetown , Sierra Leone , charges former president Ernest Bai Koroma with four offences, including treason for his alleged role during the November coup attempt. (France 24) 
 Capital punishment in India 
 A court in India sentences two men to death over a train bombing in 2005 which killed 14 people. ( Deccan Herald ) 
 A court in the U.S. state of New York releases unsealed documents containing the associates list of Jeffrey Epstein to the public. ( The Independent ) 
 Three men are stabbed and injured on a train at Akihabara Station in Tokyo , Japan . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Hilda Heine is sworn in as President of the Marshall Islands . (RNZ) 
 Month January 2024 Previous day January 2 Next day January 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_January_3&oldid=1211012259 "