
 
 
 August 3, 2024 ( 2024-08-03 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 At least fifteen people are killed in an Israeli attack on a school sheltering displaced people in the Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood of Gaza City . (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 One killed and six were injured in Israeli airstrikes in southern Lebanon. (Al Jazeera) 
 Hezbollah launches rockets at Upper Galilee in northern Israel which are intercepted by Israel's Iron Dome and misses an Israeli airforce plane in Lebanese airspace. (Al Jazeera) 
 The United States embassy in Beirut , Lebanon , urges its citizens to leave the country amid increasing tensions in the Middle East . (BBC News) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Niger 
 The Jama'at Nasr al-Islam wal-Muslimin takes two Russian citizens hostage in Mbanga, Niger . (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Economic impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 S&P Global downgrades Ukraine 's credit rating to "SD" for 'selective' default after Ukraine was unable to pay a US$ 34 million international bond payment, and also stating that Ukraine's credit rating could fall to "D", which would represent a complete default following restructuring of Ukraine's debt. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Antarctica heat wave 
 A record prolonged heat wave persists over Antarctica , with temperatures reaching 50 F (28 C) higher than average in some areas during the middle of winter . (CNN) 
 2024 Japan heatwaves 
 The Japanese Meteorological Agency issues excessive heat warnings for 37 of the 47 prefectures amid heat waves where at least 59 people have died from heat stroke since April. (NHK) (Al Jazeera) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Parole for Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans 
 The Biden administration provisionally suspends all migrant permits allowing Venezuelans , Cubans , Haitians , and Nicaraguans to enter and stay in the United States for up to two years following suspicions of fraud by several migrant financial sponsors. (AP) 
 The Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam elects President T L m as the new General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam , succeeding Nguy n Ph Tr ng , who died on July 19. (CNA) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 Summer Olympics 
 Dominica at the 2024 Summer Olympics 
 Thea LaFond wins the gold medal in the Women's triple jump , earning Dominica its first ever Olympic medal. (Barron's) 
 Philippines at the 2024 Summer Olympics 
 Carlos Yulo wins the gold medal in Men's floor gymnastics , the Philippines ' first medal in the sport and the country's second ever gold medal. (ESPN) 
 Saint Lucia at the 2024 Summer Olympics 
 Julien Alfred wins the gold medal in the Women's 100 metres , earning Saint Lucia its first ever Olympic medal. (Barron's) 
 United States at the 2024 Summer Olympics , Swimming at the 2024 Summer Olympics 
 American swimmer Katie Ledecky wins her ninth gold medal, tying with Soviet artistic gymnast Larisa Latynina 's record of most gold medals by a female Olympian. (Reuters) 
 Month August 2024 Previous day August 2 Next day August 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_August_3&oldid=1273135302 "