
 
 
 May 11, 2025 ( 2025-05-11 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip 
 Fifteen Palestinians , mostly women and children, are killed in overnight Israeli airstrikes across the Gaza Strip . (CTV News) 
 Gaza war hostage crisis 
 Hamas agrees to release Edan Alexander , a dual American-Israeli citizen hostage, tomorrow. (Reuters) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Peace negotiations in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin proposes holding direct negotiations in Istanbul , Turkey , on May 15 after the United Kingdom , France , Germany and Poland threatened further sanctions if it does not agree to an unconditional 30-day ceasefire beginning on May 12. (Reuters) 
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy calls on Russia to confirm an unconditional ceasefire before any direct negotiations between the two nations. (Reuters) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 At least two police officers are killed and three others are injured in a roadside bombing targeting a police vehicle in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (CTV News) 
 Israeli MIAs 
 The body of Israel Defense Forces soldier Zvi Feldman, missing since the 1982 Lebanon War , is repatriated to Israel from "deep inside Syria " in a joint Mossad IDF operation. ( The Times of Israel ) (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Mediterranean Sea migrant smuggling 
 Three people are found dead, including two children, on a dinghy crossing the Mediterranean Sea from Libya to Italy . German NGO RESQSHIP intercepts the boat and brings the remaining 59 survivors to Lampedusa . (DW) 
 A bus carrying Buddhist pilgrims in Kotmale , Sri Lanka , swerves off a cliff , killing 21 people and injuring 35 others. (CTV News) 
 Five people are killed, dozens are injured including three critically, and hundreds are displaced in a fire at a four-story apartment building in Milwaukee , Wisconsin , United States. (WTMJ-TV) (CNN) 
 A runner collapses and later dies near the finish line during running event Loop Leeuwarden in Leeuwarden , Netherlands , causing the organizers to cancel the event. (NOS) 
 A man hangs desperately on a burning hot air balloon and falls to his death in Zacatecas , Mexico . Two others were injured. 
 International relations 
 
 Poland Russia relations 
 Polish authorities confirm evidences of Russian sabotage behind the arson attack that destroyed most of the Marywilska 44 marketplace in Warsaw in 2024. As a reaction, the Russian consulate general in Krak w is ordered to close down. ( The Guardian ) (AP) 
 In his first Sunday address, Pope Leo XIV calls for peace in Ukraine , the release of all war prisoners and the return of abducted Ukrainian children to their families, an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostages and the allowance of humanitarian aid in Gaza , as well as a permanent ceasefire to the India Pakistan conflict . ( The Guardian ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 The Taliban bans chess in Afghanistan , with a Taliban spokesman saying that chess is considered a form of gambling under Sharia law. (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 Albanian parliamentary election 
 Albanians vote to elect the 140 members of the Parliament , as Prime Minister Edi Rama seeks reelection for a fourth term. (Reuters) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 10 Next day May 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_11&oldid=1292338767 "