
 
 
 August 4, 2022 ( 2022-08-04 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Battle of Donbas 
 A Russian strike kills eight civilians and injures four others, at a bus stop in Toretsk , according to regional governor Pavlo Kyrylenko . (Ukrinform) 
 War crimes in the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Amnesty International releases a report alleging Ukrainian forces have endangered civilians by establishing bases and operating weapons systems in residential areas, schools, hospitals, violating international humanitarian law as they turn civilian objects into military targets. (Amnesty International) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 Thirteen people, including nine civilians, are killed in a militant attack in Bam , Burkina Faso ; thirty-four insurgents are also killed. (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 2022 inflation surge 
 The Bank of England raises its benchmark interest rate from 1.25% to 1.75% in its largest single rate hike since 1995. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Twelve people are killed when a truck collides with a commuter bus in Central Region , Ghana . (UNOI) 
 Three people are killed and a fourth person is seriously injured by a lightning strike at Lafayette Square in Washington, D.C. , United States . (CBC) 
 Six people are killed and eight others are injured when nurse Nicole Linton drove into multiple cars at over 130 MPH in Windsor Hills, California . (CBS) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak in the United States 
 The Biden administration declares the ongoing monkeypox outbreak to be a public health emergency . (MSN) 
 The United States Food and Drug Administration announces that it will permit the use of Bavarian Nordic 's Jynneos vaccine in children on a case by case basis. (ABC News) 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa 
 COVID-19 vaccination in South Africa 
 South Africa reports its first death linked to the COVID-19 vaccine in a person who received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Cross-Strait relations 
 2022 United States congressional delegation visit to Taiwan 
 China launches missiles off the coast of Taiwan as part of military exercises conducted following the visit from U.S. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi . (Reuters) (AP) 
 Month August 2022 Previous day August 3 Next day August 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_August_4&oldid=1232616554 "