
 
 
 May 6, 2025 ( 2025-05-06 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Red Sea crisis 
 May 2025 Israeli attacks on Yemen 
 Israeli airstrikes hit Sanaa International Airport in Sanaa , Yemen , and destroy three of Yemenia 's seven planes. ( The Times of Israel ) 
 United States attacks in Yemen 
 U.S. president Donald Trump announces that the United States has reached a ceasefire with the Houthis , with Oman as mediator, and will stop its airstrikes, after they agreed to stop disrupting international shipping. (Reuters) (NBC News) 
 A second U.S. Navy F/A-18 fighter jet is lost in the Red Sea , due to an equipment failure during its attempted landing on USS Harry Truman . Both of its crew members ejected and were recovered. (CNN) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 Seven Pakistan Army soldiers are killed and five others are injured when their vehicle in a convoy heading to a security operation is exploded by a Balochistan Liberation Army improvised explosive device in Balochistan , Pakistan . (Al Jazeera English) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Five gunmen are killed and six vehicles burned, after an encounter between C rtel del Noreste and Jalisco New Generation Cartel s which took place in the Rayones , Nuevo Le n, M xico. (El Universal) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Twelve people are killed and 23 others are injured after a bus overturns in Padang Panjang , West Sumatra , Indonesia . (VOI.ID) 
 Four people are killed and over 40 others are injured when a passenger bus rolls down into a gorge in Poonch District , Jammu and Kashmir , India. ( The Times of India ) 
 International relations 
 
 India United Kingdom relations 
 British prime minister Keir Starmer and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi announce they have signed a bilateral free trade agreement to significantly lower tariffs on 99% of Indian exports into the UK, including textiles , and halve tariffs of British exports into India, including aerospace manufacturing , whiskey , and lamb meat . (DW) 
 Law and crime 
 
 The government of Peru imposes a curfew and temporarily suspends gold mining in Pataz Province for 30 days after the bodies of thirteen miners who were kidnapped and killed were discovered on Sunday. (DW) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 German federal election 
 The Bundestag elects Friedrich Merz , leader of the Christian Democratic Union , as the 10th Chancellor of Germany in the second round of voting, with 325 votes out of the 316 votes necessary. (BBC News) (Tagesschau) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 5 Next day May 7 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_6&oldid=1290631616 "