
 
 
 June 29, 2024 ( 2024-06-29 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kivu conflict 
 M23 offensive 
 M23 rebels take control of Kayna , Luofu, Kanyabayonga , and surrounding areas after heavy fighting with FARDC . Almost the entire population of Kanyabayonga , including refugees it had taken in from Rutshuru , flee the rebel advance. The town is considered a pathway to the cities of Butembo and Beni . (Radio Okapi) (VOA) 
 2024 Borno State bombings 
 Thirty people are killed in Borno State , Nigeria , by bomb blasts at a hospital, wedding and funeral. (CNN) 
 Islamic State insurgency in Iraq 
 Five large bombs planted by ISIL are discovered in the walls of the Great Mosque of al-Nuri, Mosul , Iraq . (Al Jazeera) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 At least twelve people, including four children, are killed by Russian attacks in Ukraine . (Al Jazeera) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 The Rapid Support Forces launch an assault and capture the town of Singa , the probable capital of Sennar State , Sudan . (VOA) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Landslides in Nepal kill nine people, including three children. (Reuters) 
 Five people are killed in a fire at a dormitory building in Balashikha , Moscow Oblast , Russia . (Reuters) 
 Five Indian soldiers are killed in Ladakh , India , after their tank sinks in abruptly increased water levels in the Shyok River during a military exercise. (AP) 
 Five people are killed and 38 others are injured after an explosion at an fireworks warehouse in Zamboanga City , Philippines . (AFP via The Daily Star ) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2024 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Tropical Storm Beryl intensifies into Hurricane Beryl , becoming the first hurricane in the 2024 Atlantic hurricane season. (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Haiti United States relations , Haitian crisis 
 The Biden administration extends Temporary Protected Status to 309,000 Haitian refugees in the United States until February 2026, offering them deportation relief and work permits . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Violent incidents in reaction to the Israel Hamas war 
 2024 attack on the Israeli embassy in Belgrade 
 A man attacks a police officer guarding the Israeli embassy in Belgrade , Serbia , with a crossbow before being shot and killed. Serbian President Aleksandar Vu i calls the incident a terrorist attack against Serbia. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 French protests against the far-right 
 Several hundred people march in Paris , France , to honour Nahel Merzouk and protest against police brutality and far-right parties . (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 Iranian presidential election 
 Saeed Jalili and Masoud Pezeshkian advance to the Iranian presidential run-off , amid record-low voter attendance. (Reuters) (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 Mauritanian presidential election 
 Mauritanians vote between incumbent Mohamed Ould Ghazouani and six other candidates for President ; Ghazouani wins re-election on the first ballot. (Reuters) 
 Over 100,000 German protesters and 1,000 police officers clash at an Alternative for Germany event in Essen , Germany. Police use pepper spray and batons on protesters. (Al Jazeera) (BBC News) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 28 Next day June 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_29&oldid=1276721184 "