
 
 
 November 13, 2022 ( 2022-11-13 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Terrorism in Turkey 
 2022 Istanbul bombing 
 An IED explodes on stiklal Avenue in Beyo lu , Istanbul , killing six people and injuring 81 others. (Al Jazeera) 
 Interior Minister S leyman Soylu reports that a Syrian female suspect has been arrested. (ABC News Australia) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Iran Israel conflict during the Syrian civil war 
 Israel launches missile strikes on Shayrat Airbase in Homs Governorate , central Syria , killing two soldiers and injuring three others, according to Syrian state television . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Mahsa Amini protests 
 The Islamic Revolutionary Court of Iran issues the first death sentence in connection with the protests. The sentenced person was convicted of burning a government office. (MSN) 
 2022 University of Virginia shooting 
 Three people are killed and two others are injured by a mass shooting at the University of Virginia , Charlottesville , Virginia , United States . (AP) 
 Presidency of Andr s Manuel L pez Obrador 
 Thousands of demonstrators march nationwide against the proposal of Andr s Manuel L pez Obrador , the president of Mexico , to reform the autonomous National Electoral Institute . The proposals include the possibility of allowing the president and congress to choose the electoral councillors to be subsequently voted by the electorate. ( The Washington Post ) 
 2022 University of Idaho killings 
 In Moscow, Idaho , United States, four University of Idaho students are found stabbed to death at a residence near the university's campus. ( Idaho Statesman ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Slovenian presidential election 
 Independent liberal Nata a Pirc Musar defeats her right-wing opponent An e Logar in a run-off vote and will become the country's first female president . ( Foreign Brief ) ( The Guardian ) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 Formula One World Championship 
 2022 S o Paulo Grand Prix 
 British racing driver George Russell of Mercedes wins the first Formula One race of his career. (CNN) 
 Month November 2022 Previous day November 12 Next day November 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_November_13&oldid=1122798500 "