
 
 
 June 3, 2024 ( 2024-06-03 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict , Syrian civil war 
 Three Hezbollah members killed in Israeli airstrikes on Naqoura and Kauthariyet El Rez in southern Lebanon . [(L'Orient le Jour) 
 16 Iranian-supported militia members killed in an IDF airstrike on a copper plant near Aleppo , Syria. (Al Arabiya) 
 Hezbollah fires drone attacks at IDF center station in the Galilee and in Metula . (Al Arabiya) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 The Rapid Support Forces announce the establishment of a civil administration in the state of South Darfur , which they fully control. (Al Taghyeer) 
 A Syrian man is arrested after throwing a Molotov cocktail at the Israeli embassy in Bucharest , Romania and attempting to self-immolate . ( Jerusalem Post ) (AP) 
 Business and economy 
 
 GameStop short squeeze 
 The value of GameStop shares increases by 21% after Keith Gill posts a $116 million investment on Reddit . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Indian heat wave 
 More than 211 people are killed and nearly 25,000 others suffer from heatstroke amid a severe heat wave in India . ( The Independent ) (Reuters) 
 The K lauea volcano in Hawaii , United States , erupts for the first time in nine months. ( The New York Times ) 
 June 2024 South African storm complex 
 At least 11 people are killed by two tornadoes in the South African province of KwaZulu-Natal . (Daily Maverick) 
 International relations 
 
 Afghanistan Kazakhstan relations , International relations with the Taliban 
 Kazakhstan removes the Taliban from its list of terrorist organizations . (RFE/RL) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Arrest of Imran Khan 
 The Islamabad High Court overturns former Prime Minister of Pakistan Imran Khan 's charges of leaking national security secrets. (Reuters) 
 The Chinese Ministry of State Security arrests and charges a couple for allegedly spying for Britain 's MI6 agency. (Al Jazeera) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 2024 Georgian protests 
 Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia Shalva Papuashvili signs the foreign agent bill into law amid mass protests and warnings from Western countries against signing the bill. (RFE/RL) 
 2024 European farmers' protests 
 Spanish and French farmers block roads on highways through the Pyrenees mountains in protest against trade with non-European Union member states . (Reuters) 
 2024 United Kingdom general election 
 Nigel Farage appoints himself leader of Reform UK and announces that he will run as a candidate for the party in the upcoming UK general election in Clacton . ( The New York Times ) 
 2024 Nigerian general strike 
 Major Nigerian unions Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress begin an indefinite general strike , causing closures of schools, public offices, and airports, as well as a shutdown of the national power grid amid a cost-of-living crisis and record low minimum wages in Nigeria. (VOA) (Al Jazeera) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 2 Next day June 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_3&oldid=1239436471 "