
 
 
 March 16, 2023 ( 2023-03-16 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Poland announces that it will deliver four MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine , becoming the first NATO member state to send warplanes to Ukraine. (Sky News) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Two militants including Islamic Jihad and Hamas commanders and two civilians are killed and five others are injured during a raid by Israeli security forces in the Jenin refugee camp , in the West Bank . ( The Jerusalem Post ) (Al Jazeera) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Eight militants and two civilian children are killed during a military operation by the Pakistan Army in Zinghara, South Waziristan . (Xinhua) 
 Libyan Crisis 
 The Libyan National Army says that it has found about two and a half tonnes of uranium ore contained in ten drums, near the border with Chad , that was reported missing by the International Atomic Energy Agency . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 23 South-West Indian Ocean cyclone season 
 Cyclone Freddy 
 The death toll from Cyclone Freddy increases to over 300, with most of the deaths occurring in Malawi . (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Two police officers are killed by a 16-year-old gunman while responding to a domestic dispute call at an apartment complex in Inglewood, Edmonton , Canada . The perpetrator kills himself after seriously wounding his mother. (CBC News) 
 Over 220 Brazilian National Guardsmen are deployed to the northeastern states of Rio Grande do Norte and Para ba after riots caused by imprisoned gang members result in three deaths and class cancellations in both states. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 French pension reform strikes 
 French President Emmanuel Macron invokes a Constitutional amendment allowing him to circumvent the National Assembly in order to pass a controversial reform bill raising the retirement age in the country from 62 to 64, without the bill going to a vote. ( The New York Times ) 
 The Moldovan parliament approves a law that formally declares the country 's official language as Romanian . (Reuters) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Censorship of TikTok , Internet censorship in the United Kingdom 
 The British government bans the use of Chinese -owned video-sharing app TikTok on all government devices, citing security concerns. (Sky News) 
 Month March 2023 Previous day March 15 Next day March 17 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_March_16&oldid=1163538952 "