
 
 
 January 23, 2025 ( 2025-01-23 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Four people are killed and five more injured in a stampede at Cambodian businessman Sok Kong 's home in Phnom Penh as he was giving away food and money amid Lunar New Year celebrations. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Southport stabbing 
 A court in Liverpool , England , sentences the man who was found guilty of killing three children and injuring 10 others in a mass stabbing in Southport , Merseyside , to life imprisonment with a minimum of 52 years in prison. (DW) 
 LGBTQ rights in Thailand 
 Thailand becomes the 38th country and the first in Southeast Asia to legalize same-sex marriage . (Reuters) 
 The International Criminal Court prosecutor requests arrest warrants against Afghanistan's Taliban supreme leader Hibatullah Akhundzada and Taliban chief justice Abdul Hakim Haqqani , accusing them of crimes against humanity . (Reuters) 
 United States federal law enforcement and ICE agents arrest nearly 500 undocumented migrants with arrest warrants in sanctuary cities , including in New Jersey and New York . (CTV News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Second presidency of Donald Trump 
 Executive actions by Donald Trump 
 Declassification of Records Concerning the Assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
 U.S. President Donald Trump signs an executive order to declassify files related to the assassinations of John F. Kennedy , Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr . (Axios) 
 State of Washington v. Trump (2025) 
 U.S. District Judge for Washington John C. Coughenour temporarily blocks President Trump's executive order attempting to end birthright citizenship , calling it "blatantly unconstitutional ". (Reuters) ( The New York Times ) 
 The U.S. Department of State bans consular posts from flying any flags other than the U.S. flag as part of the Trump administration targeting several instances during the Biden administration when LGBTQ pride and Black Lives Matter flags were flown at embassies abroad. ( The Guardian ) 
 2024 Irish general election , Government of the 34th D il 
 Fianna F il and Fine Gael form a coalition government with the backing of several independent TDs . Fianna F il leader Miche l Martin is elected as Taoiseach , with Fine Gael leader Simon Harris as T naiste . (Politico) 
 Sports 
 
 2025 Australian Open 
 In tennis , John Peers and Olivia Gadecki , both from Australia , defeats Kimberly Birrell and John-Patrick Smith 3-6, 6-4, 10-6, in the mixed doubles final to win their first Australian Open title. ( The Guardian ) 
 Month January 2025 Previous day January 22 Next day January 24 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_January_23&oldid=1283871751 "