
 
 
 March 24, 2024 ( 2024-03-24 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 March 2024 Polish airspace violation 
 A Russian cruise missile violates NATO airspace over Poland , prompting the activation of aircraft from the Polish Air Force . (Reuters) (Sky News) 
 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russia launches major airstrikes on Kyiv and Lviv in Western Ukraine using Kinzhal hypersonic missiles and drones with strikes damaging ground level infrastructure at Ukraine 's main gas storage site. (Reuters) 
 Nigerian bandit conflict 
 Kuriga kidnapping 
 The pupils kidnapped on March 7 from schools in Kuriga, Chikun , Kaduna State , are freed. (BBC News) 
 2024 Ecuadorian conflict 
 Brigitte Garc a , the youngest mayor in Ecuador , and one of her advisors are found shot dead in Manab Province , western Ecuador . (Reuters) 
 Crocus City Hall attack 
 Four Tajik men are charged with terrorism . They are brought to Basmanny District court in Moscow , where they are ordered to be held in pre-trial detention until at least May 22. (BBC) 
 Salvadoran gang crackdown 
 Salvadoran President Nayib Bukele announces the beginning of a blockade of four municipalities in northern El Salvador , mobilizing 5,000 soldiers and 1,000 police officers to arrest suspected gang members. (El Mundo) 
 Three gunmen attack the police headquarters in Yerevan , Armenia . Two of the attackers are injured by their grenades , all three gunmen are detained. No casualties are reported. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 East Sepik earthquake 
 A magnitude 6.9 earthquake has hit a remote part of western Papua New Guinea , killing five people and causing extensive damage to around 1,000 homes. (VOA) 
 Twenty-three people are killed in a rainstorm in Esp rito Santo and Rio de Janeiro states , Brazil . (ABC News) 
 A rally car veers off the road and crashes into a group of spectators during the Esztergom-Nyerges Rally between the towns of L batlan and Baj t in northwest Hungary , killing four people and injuring eight others. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Assassination of Marielle Franco 
 The Brazilian Federal Police arrests three men, including federal deputy Chiquinho Braz o and his brother Domingos , for ordering and planning the assassination of Rio de Janeiro city councillor Marielle Franco in 2018. (G1) ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Fine Gael leadership election 
 Irish education minister Simon Harris is elected as Leader of Fine Gael following the resignation of Leo Varadkar . At age 37, Harris will become Ireland 's youngest ever Taoiseach upon taking office. (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 Dutch female darts players Anca Zijlstra and Aileen de Graaf , leave the Netherlands National Team to protest trans athlete Noa-Lynn van Leuven playing on the team . (NOS) 
 Month March 2024 Previous day March 23 Next day March 25 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_March_24&oldid=1216363794 "