
 
 
 December 2, 2024 ( 2024-12-02 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Gaza war hostage crisis 
 Hamas says that 33 hostages have been killed in the 14 months since the war started. ( The Times ) 
 The Israel Defense Forces say that Israeli-American soldier Omer Maxim Neutra, previously believed to be a living hostage, was killed during the October 7 attacks last year and his body was kept in Gaza . ( Haaretz ) 
 U.S. President-elect Donald Trump says there will be "all Hell to pay" if all the hostages are not released prior to the start of his second term . (AP) 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 The Gaza Health Ministry says that around 37 Palestinians have been killed in Israeli attacks in the past 24 hours, increasing the Palestinian death toll in Gaza to 44,466. ( The Hindu ) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Despite the ceasefire , Israel and Hezbollah exchange fire, with Israel targeting Talousa and Haris in Lebanon , killing at least eleven people. (Reuters) (Al Jazeera) 
 Syrian civil war 
 2024 Syrian opposition offensives 
 Operation Dawn of Freedom 
 Significant populations of Kurds in Syria are displaced from the northern Aleppo countryside, after factions of the Turkish -backed National Army take control of Kurdish -held territories. (SOHR) 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken announces that the United States will provide Ukraine with a $725 million weapons package. (Reuters) 
 Allied Democratic Forces insurgency , Kivu conflict 
 At least 10 people are killed during an attack by Allied Democratic Forces gunmen in Batangi-Mbau, North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo . Several houses are burned . (AP) 
 New People's Army rebellion 
 Six suspected New People's Army guerrillas, including two ranking leaders of a regional committee, are killed in an encounter in Las Navas, Northern Samar , Philippines . ( Daily Tribune ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 German economic crisis 
 Workers of the German metalworkers ' union IG Metall begin a labor strike after failed negotiations with Volkswagen following the closure of three automotive manufacturing plants. (DW) 
 Law and crime 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in the United States 
 The U.S. House of Representatives Oversight and Accountability Committee releases their final reports on the COVID-19 outbreak in the United States investigating the origins of COVID-19, Operation Warp Speed 's vaccination program , and mask mandates and lockdowns . ( The Hill ) 
 2024 Georgian post-election protests 
 Georgian police arrest opposition leader Zurab Japaridze , accusing his party of "coordinating violence" during the protests against Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze . (Al Jazeera) ( The Guardian ) 
 Maritime drug smuggling into Australia 
 Australian Federal Police announces they have arrested thirteen men, including the vice president of the outlaw Comanchero Motorcycle Club and two teenagers, for illegally smuggling 2.34 tonnes of cocaine into the country after their fishing boat broke down off the coast of Urangan , Queensland , Australia. (Al Jazeera) (RNZ) (ABC News) 
 Forty-four children are injured, including one critically, when a person sprays an unknown gas inside a school in Berlin , Germany . (Blue News) 
 Three people are killed and eight others are injured after a mass shooting at a gathering in Gage Park , Chicago , Illinois , United States . (NBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Irish general election 
 In Ireland , Fianna F il remains the largest party in D il ireann , increasing its number of seats to 48. Its governing partner Fine Gael wins 38 seats, with the two parties combined winning 86 seats, two shy of a majority. (AP) 
 2024 Romanian presidential election 
 The Constitutional Court of Romania upholds the results of the first round of the presidential elections following a recount last week after far-right independent candidate C lin Georgescu won a plurality of the vote, triggering a run-off . (Al Jazeera) (France24) 
 Month December 2024 Previous day December 1 Next day December 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_December_2&oldid=1272917141 "