
 
 
 October 7, 2022 ( 2022-10-07 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 During two separate shootings, a 14-year-old Palestinian boy is killed by Israeli soldiers in a village near Ramallah , in the West Bank , while a 17-year-old Palestinian boy is killed and his mother wounded when Israeli soldiers open fire at residents during confrontations with Israeli settlers . (Al Jazeera) 
 Communist rebellion in the Philippines 
 Two soldiers are killed and three civilians are injured when five drug gangs open fire during a attack on a senator's convoy in clashes with airstrikes , prison riots , mass shooting , and mass stabbing between the military and the New People's Army in Eastern Samar , Philippines . (Xinhua) 
 Somali Civil War 
 The Somali Armed Forces kill 19 al-Shabaab militants in Bal'ad , Middle Shabelle , in a repelled attack amid ongoing operations against the jihadist group. (allAfrica) 
 Seven soldiers are killed and four injured during an attack at an army base in Garabtisan, Djibouti , by Armed FRUD gunmen. Both the attackers are killed. (Al Jazeera) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 2022 Nobel Peace Prize 
 Belarusian activist Ales Bialiatski , the Russian human rights society Memorial and the Ukrainian human rights organization The Center for Civil Liberties are awarded the Nobel Peace Prize . (DW) 
 Eurovision Song Contest 2023 
 Liverpool is selected as the host city of next year's Eurovision Song Contest . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Creeslough explosion 
 Ten people are killed, eight others are injured, and others remain trapped under rubble after an explosion at an Applegreen petrol station in the village of Creeslough , County Donegal , Ireland . (BBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 Mahsa Amini protests 
 Canada Iran relations 
 The Canadian government permanently bans 10,000 IRGC members from Canada. (Iranintl) (CTV News) 
 Denmark Iran relations 
 An armed intruder damages several vehicles in the parking lot of the Iranian embassy in Copenhagen , Denmark . Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian criticizes the Danish police for not providing adequate protection for the embassy. (Tasnim) (Bloomberg) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Lesotho general election 
 Citizens in Lesotho head to the polls to elect the 120 members of the National Assembly . (Reuters) 
 Month October 2022 Previous day October 6 Next day October 8 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_October_7&oldid=1199093278 "