
 
 
 January 1, 2023 ( 2023-01-01 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 Islamic State Taliban conflict 
 2023 Kabul airport bombing 
 Several people are killed by an Islamic State bombing at a checkpoint outside the military airport in Kabul . (Al Jazeera) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Israel's role in the Syrian civil war 
 Two soldiers are killed during a series of Israeli airstrikes at Damascus International Airport . (Al Jazeera) 
 Kashmir conflict 
 2023 Rajouri attacks 
 Four civilians are killed and six others injured when two gunmen open fire against Hindu people's homes in Rajouri district , Jammu and Kashmir . (India Today) 
 Mexican drug war 
 2023 Ciudad Ju rez prison attack 
 Ten prison officers and four inmates are killed in an armed attack on a prison in Ciudad Ju rez , Chihuahua , Mexico , in which 24 prisoners escaped . (AFP via Deccan Herald ) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Two Palestinians are killed and three more injured during confrontations with Israeli soldiers who stormed Kafr Dan to demolish the homes of two Palestinians killed in a shootout at a checkpoint in Jenin several months ago. (Al Jazeera) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 2023 inflation surge 
 Canadian property bubble 
 Canada enacts a law prohibiting foreigners, except for immigrants and permanent residents , from acquiring residential areas in the country for two years in response to a real-estate bubble . (CNN Business) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least nine people are killed and many others are injured during a stampede at a concert in Kampala , Uganda . (Al Jazeera) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic 
 Australia and Canada announce that they will require travelers from China to present a negative COVID-19 test in order to enter their countries beginning on January 5. (CTV News) ( Sydney Morning Herald ) 
 Climate change in the United Kingdom 
 The British arm of climate protest group Extinction Rebellion announces it will "temporarily" shift away from using public disruption as a primary tactic. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Three officers with the New York City Police Department are wounded in a machete attack during New Year's Eve celebrations in Times Square . The suspect, a 19-year-old male from Maine , is also wounded and has been arrested, with jihadist motives being suspected. (NBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Enlargement of the eurozone 
 Croatia and the euro 
 Croatia changes its national currency from the kuna to the euro to become 20th member state of the Eurozone , and joins the European passport-free zone, the Schengen Area . (AFP via Macau Business ) 
 Third inauguration of Luiz In cio Lula da Silva 
 Luiz In cio Lula da Silva is sworn in as President of Brazil for the third time in his political career. (T lam) 
 Science and technology 
 
 2023 Philippine airspace closure 
 The Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines closes the country 's airspace for nearly six hours due to a power outage in its air traffic management center, affecting more than 280 commercial flights and more than 56,000 passengers. (Bloomberg) 
 Month January 2023 Previous day December 31 Next day January 2 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_January_1&oldid=1146845537 "