
 
 
 March 3, 2025 ( 2025-03-03 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 United States and the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 U.S. President Donald Trump pauses all U.S. military aid to Ukraine with immediate effect. (Bloomberg) (CNN) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 A suicide bomber kills one person and wounds three others in Kalat, Balochistan , Pakistan . (AP News) 
 Western DR Congo clashes 
 The Congolese military announces that eight members of the Mobondo militia, including one of their leaders, were killed the previous day when an army patrol seized the group's headquarters in the Kwamouth Territory , Mai-Ndombe Province . (Radio Okapi) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 25 Australian region cyclone season 
 Cyclone warnings are issued to residents of Brisbane , South East Queensland and the Northern Rivers region of New South Wales as Tropical Cyclone Alfred is expected to make landfall on Thursday or early Friday local time. ( The Guardian Australia) 
 A bus rolls down a ravine after colliding with a truck in southern Bolivia , killing at least 31 people and injuring 22 others. (Reuters) 
 At least 80 people are trapped inside a supermarket in G mar , Tenerife , and dozens of cars are swept away to sea and stuck in mud in Gran Canaria after torrential rain caused floods across the Canary Islands in Spain . ( Canaria Weekly ) ( The Sun ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2025 Mannheim car incident 
 A car drives into a crowd of people near a Carnival market in Mannheim , Germany , killing two people and injuring 25 others, including fifteen seriously. A man has been arrested. (Euronews) (DW) 
 A 70-year-old Arab Israeli man is killed and three others are injured in a mass stabbing at a bus station in Haifa , Israel . The perpetrator, an Israeli-Druze from Shfar'am , is killed by civilians present at the attack. (Al Jazeera) (DW) ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 The Holy See reports that Pope Francis has been diagnosed with " acute respiratory distress " as a result of bronchospasms and a build-up of bronchial mucus , after recovering from pneumonia and bronchitis several days ago. (VOA) (NPR) 
 Month March 2025 Previous day March 2 Next day March 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_March_3&oldid=1278851179 "