
 
 
 September 28, 2024 ( 2024-09-28 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 September 2024 Lebanon strikes 
 2024 Hezbollah headquarters strike 
 Hezbollah announces the death of its leader Hassan Nasrallah in yesterday's Israeli airstrikes in Beirut , Lebanon . (Reuters) 
 Interim Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati announces the country will have a national mourning period of three days for Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, starting on Monday. (Al Jazeera) 
 Iran confirms that Abbas Nilforoushan , an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps deputy commander, was killed in yesterday's airstrikes in Beirut. (Al Arabiya) 
 The Israel Defense Forces begin a blockade of Beirut Rafic Hariri International Airport in order to prevent the shipment of Iranian weapons to Lebanon. The blockade will not affect the operation of civilian flights at the airport. ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 Iran Israel proxy conflict 
 Red Sea crisis 
 The Houthis launch a ballistic missile from Yemen towards Ben Gurion Airport in Israel , prompting air raid sirens in Tel Aviv and most of Central Israel. (Reuters) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 Seven workers from Punjab Province are killed and another injured during a mass shooting at a rented house in Panjgur District , Balochistan Province , Pakistan . (AP) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ten people are killed and 22 others are injured in a Russian double tap strike on a medical facility in Sumy , Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 Somali Civil War 
 At least six people are killed and ten others are injured when a car bomb explodes outside a restaurant in Mogadishu , Somalia . (Reuters) (VOA Somali) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Hurricane Helene 
 The death toll from Hurricane Helene in the United States increases to at least 64 people, including 21 in South Carolina and 18 in Georgia . (AP) 
 2024 Mari Petroleum Mil Mi-8 crash 
 A Mil Mi-8 helicopter carrying Mari Petroleum employees crashes in North Waziristan District , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan , killing six people and injuring eight others. (AP) 
 2024 Nepal floods 
 At least 170 people are killed and 59 others are missing in floods and landslides in Nepal . (The Journal) 
 Nine people are killed, 27 others are rescued, and 48 others are missing when a boat carrying migrants capsizes off the coast of El Hierro in the Canary Islands , Spain . (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 United Nations Secretary-General Ant nio Guterres declares a warning at the UN General Assembly for nearly a billion people living in low-lying coastal areas due to the risk of rising sea levels caused by climate change potentially resulting in catastrophic flooding , coastal erosion , and climate migration . (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Lusikisiki shootings 
 Seventeen people are killed in two mass shootings at homes in Lusikisiki , Eastern Cape , South Africa . (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 AFL premiership season 
 The Brisbane Lions defeat the Sydney Swans 120 60 in the Australian Football League Grand Final to win their fourth AFL premiership title. ( The Guardian Australia ) 
 Month September 2024 Previous day September 27 Next day September 29 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_September_28&oldid=1248729475 "