
 
 
 October 30, 2024 ( 2024-10-30 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Beqaa Valley airstrikes 
 Israeli airstrikes on two villages in Baalbek , Lebanon , kill at least nineteen people. (Reuters) 
 The Israeli army says that it killed the deputy head of Hezbollah 's Redwan Force Mustafa Ahmad Shahadi in a strike in Nabatieh , Lebanon . (Al Arabiya) 
 Moro conflict 
 Nineteen people are killed and five are injured after a shootout triggered by a land dispute between two rival factions of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front in Pagalungan , Maguindanao del Sur , Philippines . (PNA) (Xinhua) 
 War against the Islamic State 
 The United States military announces that American airstrikes in Syria earlier this week killed as many as 35 Islamic State members. (Al Arabiya) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 European floods 
 2024 Spain floods 
 At least 140 people are killed and many others are missing after severe floods in the Valencian Community , Spain , that damaged rail lines and highways . (BBC) (AP) 
 At least twelve workers are killed and another is injured in an explosion at a steel plant in Xaloztoc , Tlaxcala , Mexico . (Reuters) ( Milenio ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Mozambican general election 
 It is reported that at least ten people were killed and 63 others were injured by gunfire in post-election protests in Mozambique last week. (Reuters) 
 English Channel migrant crossings 
 One person is killed while attempting to cross the English Channel in a dinghy . Three other bodies are found on beaches near Neufch tel-Hardelot and quihen-Plage , France . (Reuters) 
 Eight people are killed and eight others are injured in a stabbing spree in Kagadi , Uganda , by members of an unknown cult . Two attackers are killed by police . (Reuters) 
 The United Nations Security Council votes 15 0 to make changes to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia , forming a new mission called the United Nations Transitional Mission in Somalia, which is expected to begin operating on November 1. (Mirage News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Botswana general election 
 Citizens of Botswana vote for the 61 seats of the National Assembly . (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 Major League Baseball season 
 2024 World Series 
 In baseball , the Los Angeles Dodgers win the World Series , defeating the New York Yankees in 5 games including a comeback victory in Game 5 at Yankee Stadium . ( Los Angeles Times ) 
 Month October 2024 Previous day October 29 Next day October 31 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_October_30&oldid=1255678349 "