
 
 
 March 23, 2025 ( 2025-03-23 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip 
 March 2025 Israeli attacks on the Gaza Strip 
 Hamas announces that an Israeli airstrike killed Salah al-Bardawil , a top member of the group's political bureau. (BBC News) 
 Hamas says that an Israeli airstrike killed Ismail Barhoum, a member of the group's political bureau, via the operating theater at Nasser Hospital in Khan Yunis where Barhoum was receiving treatment after sustaining critical injuries in an air strike targeting his home in Khan Yunis last Tuesday. (France 24) 
 Spillover of the Somali Civil War 
 2025 Garissa attack 
 At least six police officers are killed and five others are injured in an Al-Shabaab attack on a police reservists camp in Fafi , Garissa , Kenya . Dozens of militants are also killed. (Garowe Online) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Sixteen Pakistani Taliban gunmen are killed by soldiers in a shootout while attempting to enter in to Ghulam Khan . (AP) 
 Insurgency in Balochistan 
 Eight people, including at least four police officers , are killed in two separate mass shootings in Nushki and Kalat District , Balochistan , Pakistan . (Report.az) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 The Israel Defense Forces report that they intercepted a ballistic missile launched by the Houthis from Yemen , which triggered sirens across central Israel . ( Times of Israel ) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Seven people are killed and dozens are injured across Ukraine by overnight Russian drone strikes , including three civilians killed in Kyiv . (CTV News) 
 Ukrainian troops reportedly recapture the village of Nadiia , Luhansk Oblast . ( Kyiv Post ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 A van crashes into a ravine and catches fire in Nuevo Le n , Mexico , killing twelve people and injuring four others. The vehicle fire also sparked a small wildfire in the surrounding forest. (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Middle Eastern crisis 
 U.S. National Security Advisor Mike Waltz says that the U.S. wants the "full dismantlement" of Iran 's nuclear program and that "all options are on the table". (Al Arabiya) (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2025 Turkish protests , Censorship in Turkey 
 A statement by social media company X expresses that it objects to "multiple court orders " from the government of Turkey to block more than 700 accounts belonging to opposition political figures, journalists , news outlets , and student protesters. (BBC News) 
 Workers of the Shiv Sena party of Maharastra attack the Habitat Venue in Mumbai after a video posted by comedian Kunal Kamra allegedly attacking Deputy Chief Minister Eknath Shinde (Business Today) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 Turkish protests 
 Several hundred thousands of anti- Erdo an government protesters demonstrate outside of Istanbul City Hall , with the nationwide protests becoming the largest Turkish political demonstration movement in over a decade. (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 2025 WTA Tour 
 2025 Miami Open 
 In tennis , Alexandra Eala becomes the first Filipino player to defeat a top-10 opponent since the WTA rankings began in 1975, after winning in the third round of the Women's singles tournament at the Miami Open against world No. 5 Madison Keys . ( The Athletic ) 
 2025 CONCACAF Nations League Finals 
 In association football , Mexico wins its first Nations League title after defeating Panama 2 1 in the final held at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood , California , United States. (RFI) 
 Month March 2025 Previous day March 22 Next day March 24 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_March_23&oldid=1283660040 "