
 
 
 December 11, 2024 ( 2024-12-11 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Somali Civil War 
 Constitutional crisis in Somalia 
 2024 Jubaland presidential election 
 Battle of Ras Kamboni 
 Somali forces launch a failed attack on Jubaland regional forces , with Jubaland capturing hundreds of Somali soldiers and claiming to have fully taken over Ras Kamboni , Lower Juba , Somalia . (Reuters) ( Idil News ) (Garowe Online) 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 Siege of North Gaza 
 At least 29 people are killed in Israeli airstrikes on civilian areas in Beit Lahia , North Gaza Governorate , Gaza . (Al Jazeera) 
 An Israeli boy is killed and three others are injured by a Palestinian gunman attack on a bus in Al-Khader , West Bank . ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 United States and the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 The United States Department of State approves a $266.4 million sale of F-16 maintenance equipment to Ukraine . ( Ukrainska Pravda ) (DSCA) ( Newsweek ) 
 The Parliament of Canada approves the allocation of CA$ 764 million (US$587 million) in military aid to Ukraine. ( Ukrainska Pravda ) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Fall of the Assad regime 
 Armed men raid and set fire to the tomb of former president Hafez al-Assad and also conduct attacks on other tombs and graves in Qardaha District , Latakia Governorate , Syria . (SOHR) 
 Sectarianism and minorities in the Syrian civil war 
 The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights urges Syria's military leadership to prevent ongoing sectarian riots , looting, and assaults on civilians from armed groups. (SOHR) 
 The Federal Foreign Office of Germany announces an additional 8 million (US$8.4 million) in humanitarian aid to Syria following the fall of the Assad regime . (APA) 
 Haitian crisis 
 Toussaint Louverture International Airport in Port-au-Prince , Haiti , reopens after it was closed in November when a Spirit Airlines aircraft was struck by gunfire . (DW) 
 Islamic State Taliban conflict 
 Afghanistan 's acting Minister of Refugee and Repatriation Khalil Haqqani and five other people are killed in a suicide bombing at the Ministry's headquarters in Kabul , Afghanistan. (Reuters) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Five civilians are killed in Israeli airstrikes in Ainata , Bint Jbeil , and Beit Lif , Lebanon , despite the agreed ceasefire with Hezbollah . (Al Jazeera) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Amnesty International reports that Sudan is currently facing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world, with over 30 million people at risk or in need of humanitarian aid . (DW) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Proposed acquisition of Albertsons by Kroger 
 American grocery store company Albertsons of Boise , Idaho backs out of a $ 24.6 billion merger deal between Cincinnati -based grocer Kroger and files a lawsuit against them that includes a $600 million termination fee. (ABC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 One person is killed in a fire and explosion at a residential high-rise apartment building in Shenzhen , China . (Reuters) 
 Forty-four people are presumed dead from drowning when a boat carrying refugees from Sierra Leone capsizes on its way from Sfax , Tunisia , to Europe . (DW) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Two United States foreign nationals from California are killed in a shooting by unidentified gunmen in Angamacutiro , Michoac n , Mexico . (ABC News) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Environmental issues in Iran 
 Iran announces that all government offices, universities, and schools in Tehran province will be closed for two days due to severe air pollution . (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 South Korean martial law crisis 
 A special investigations team conducts a raid on South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol 's office, the National Police Agency headquarters, the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency headquarters, and the office of the National Assembly 's security service, as part of an investigation into Yoon's failed attempt at imposing martial law last week. (DW) 
 Jailed former national defense minister Kim Yong-hyun , who allegedly helped President Yoon Suk Yeol impose martial law, attempts suicide while in custody. (BBC News) 
 2024 United Kingdom farmers' protests 
 Hundreds of tractors block Whitehall , City of Westminster , England in protest of Labour government changes to the agricultural inheritance tax . ( The Independent ) 
 The Swiss Federal Assembly elects Karin Keller-Sutter , currently a Federal Councillor , as President for 2025. (Swissinfo) 
 Sports 
 
 2034 FIFA World Cup 
 FIFA announces that Saudi Arabia will host the 2034 FIFA World Cup . ( Khaleej Times ) 
 Month December 2024 Previous day December 10 Next day December 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_December_11&oldid=1272915875 "