
 
 
 May 29, 2025 ( 2025-05-29 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Business and economy 
 
 Economy of South Korea 
 South Korea s central bank cuts its key interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.5%, marking its fourth cut since October, and sharply lowered its 2025 growth forecast to 0.8%, nearly halving the previous projection of 1.5% announced in February after a monetary policy meeting. Share prices rise following the report, with the Kospi gaining 1.7%. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 South Korean Lockheed P-3 Orion crash 
 Four people are killed when a South Korean Navy Lockheed P3-C Orion aircraft crashes into a hill in Pohang , Gyeongsang , South Korea. (Euronews) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Humanitarian impact of the Sudanese civil war 
 The health ministry of Khartoum State in Sudan reports a cholera outbreak in the state, with 2,119 cases and 242 deaths in the past week and this week, including 70 in the last two days. (News Central TV) 
 International relations 
 
 Israel Palestine relations 
 Israel announces 22 new settlements in the occupied Palestinian West Bank , the biggest expansion in decades. (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Corruption in Slovakia 
 Slovakia s central bank chief, Peter Ka im r , a member of the European Central Bank committee, is convicted of bribery and fined 200,000 euros . The verdict was issued by Judge Milan Cisarik at the Special Criminal Court in Pezinok . (AP) 
 Lliuya v RWE AG 
 A court in Germany rejects a lawsuit filed by a Peruvian farmer against German energy firm RWE . Sa l Luciano Lliuya alleged that the firm's global emissions contributed to the melting of glaciers in Peru, threatening his hometown of Huaraz with flooding . (BBC News) 
 Pamplona massacre 
 Arnolfo Teves Jr. , the main suspect in the assassination of Negros Oriental governor Roel Degamo in 2023, is deported back to the Philippines from Timor-Leste following his arrest yesterday. (ABS-CBN News) 
 A court in Argentina nullifies the ongoing trial of Diego Maradona 's former medical personnel accused of malpractice following the removal of one of the trial's judges for alleged lack of impartiality . (CNN) 
 U.S. president Donald Trump commutes the federal prison sentence of Larry Hoover , the founder of the Chicago street gang Gangster Disciples , who was sentenced to six life sentences on conspiracy , extortion , drug and other criminal charges in the 1990s. (BBC News) 
 Argentine security minister Patricia Bullrich announces the arrest of 12 alleged members of Tren de Aragua , which Argentina recently designated as a terrorist organization . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 Nepalese pro-monarchy protests 
 Tens of thousands of people demonstrate in Kathmandu , Nepal , asking for the restoration of the country's monarchy and for Hinduism to be declared the state religion . Nepal abolished its monarchy in 2008. (AP) 
 2025 Portuguese legislative election 
 Portugal 's far-right Chega party becomes the lead parliamentary opposition with the second-most seats in parliament . (AP) 
 2025 South Korean presidential election 
 Early voting begins in South Korea , from 6:00 am to 6:00 pm KST on today and tomorrow, with a record early voting turnout rate being observed. ( The Straits Times ) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 28 Next day May 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_29&oldid=1293880525 "