
 
 
 April 27, 2023 ( 2023-04-27 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 One person is killed and 23 others are injured by a Russian Kalibr missile strike in Mykolaiv . (Euronews) 
 Ethiopian civil conflict 
 Assassination of Girma Yeshitila 
 Girma Yeshitilla , the leader of the Amhara Prosperity Party , the ruling party in Ethiopia , is shot dead by unknown gunmen in North Shewa , Amhara Region . (Borkena) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 An attack on a Burkinab military base in Burkina Faso 's Est region by jihadists kills 33 Burkinab soldiers. During the attack, the soldiers say they killed 40 of the jihadists before government reinforcements arrived. (Al Jazeera) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Three people are killed by a suicide bomber in Lakki Marwat , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (Reuters) 
 The Iranian Navy seizes a Marshall Islands -flagged oil tanker in international waters of the Gulf of Oman , according to the United States Navy . (AP) 
 One person is injured after multiple bombings in Weare , New Hampshire , United States . The perpetrator is still at large. (WBTS-TV) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The Spanish Parliament votes to ban the decades-old tradition of " bullfighting with costumed dwarfs " in line with " EU Directives concerning discrimination against people with disabilities ". This decision is welcomed by disability organizations. ( The Guardian ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The Prime Minister of Poland , Mateusz Morawiecki , officially re-opens the Warsaw Radom Airport in Radom , which has been under renovation since May 2019. It is estimated that the airport in its current form will initially be able to serve around 1 million passengers per year, and in the future around three million passengers per year. (Polish News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Karachi Express train fire 
 At least seven people are killed by a fire on a train car in Khairpur District , Sindh , Pakistan . (AP) 
 2023 Alaska mid-air collision 
 Three United States Army personnel are killed and another is injured when two AH-64 Apache helicopters collide over Healy , Alaska , near Fort Wainwright , in the United States . (Reuters) 
 Eleven people are killed and one person is missing when a boat capsizes in the waters off Indonesia's western province of Riau . ( Daily Finland ) ( Reuters ) 
 At least 23 houses are severely damaged by a magnitude 5.2 earthquake in Bajura District , Nepal . (ReportersNepal) 
 International relations 
 
 In a resolution drafted by the UAE and Japan , the UN Security Council unanimously condemns the Taliban administration's ban on Afghan women working, including for the United Nations in Afghanistan , and calls on Taliban leaders to lift the ban immediately. (France 24) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Human rights in Russia 
 The Moscow City Court orders the closure of the SOVA Center , which monitored nationalist and racist movements in Russia . ( The Moscow Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Women in the military 
 The Ministry of Defense of Saudi Arabia begins the recruitment of women for the military , allowing both genders to join for the first time. (Al Arabiya) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 NFL Draft 
 In American football , the NFL Draft is held with the Carolina Panthers taking Bryce Young as the first overall pick . (ESPN) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 26 Next day April 28 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_27&oldid=1268340048 "