
 
 
 September 6, 2024 ( 2024-09-06 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 At least 27 Palestinians are killed by Israeli airstrikes in cities across the Gaza Strip , including in the Nuseirat refugee camp . (Reuters) 
 Israeli occupation of the West Bank 
 Killing of Aysenur Eygi 
 Ay enur Ezgi Eygi , a Turkish American woman, is shot dead by Israeli troops during an anti- Israeli settlement protest in the West Bank . (AP) 
 Israeli settlers and soldiers storm the Palestinian village of Qaryut , beating and opening fire against the residents, killing a 13-year-old girl and wounding two men. (Palestine News Network) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs announces the end of its international adoption program after suspending the program during the COVID-19 pandemic . (Al Jazeera) 
 China opens the world's largest indoor skiing resort in Pudong , Shanghai , with a 90,000 square metres (970,000 sq ft) skiing area and a total campus area of 350,000 square metres (3,800,000 sq ft). (DW) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Eighteen students are killed and 27 others are injured in a fire at a boarding school in Nyeri , Kenya . (Al Jazeera) 
 A Piper PA-46 aircraft crashes into a cornfield after going into a nosedive in Anderson, Indiana , United States , killing all four occupants on board. (FOX59) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 United Kingdom riots 
 Sheffield Crown Court in South Yorkshire , UK , sentences Thomas Birley, a British man who set fire to a hotel that housed asylum seekers in Rotherham , South Yorkshire, to nine years in prison for arson with the intent to endanger life, the longest sentence related to the riots so far. (Al Jazeera) 
 Prosecution of Donald Trump in New York 
 New York Supreme Court justice Juan Merchan postpones former U.S. President Donald Trump 's sentencing in his criminal case until after Election Day on November 5. ( The New York Times ) (Reuters) 
 Polish prosecutors charge three Belarusian citizens for diverting Ryanair Flight 4978 under a fabricated bomb threat to arrest political activist Roman Protasevich and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega . (DW) 
 Brazilian human rights minister Silvio Almeida is fired from his cabinet position following several accusations of sexual harassment towards women, including another cabinet minister. (Reuters) 
 Month September 2024 Previous day September 5 Next day September 7 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_September_6&oldid=1273133250 "