
 
 
 April 4, 2025 ( 2025-04-04 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Kharkiv strikes , Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Five people are killed, including a child, and 35 are injured in a Russian drone attack on a residential area in Novobavarskyi District of Kharkiv , Ukraine . ( Ukrainska Pravda ) 
 Kryvyi Rih strikes 
 A Russian ballistic missile strike on a residential area in Kryvyi Rih , Ukraine , kills 19 people, including nine children, and injures more than 50 others. The Russian Defence Ministry says its forces were targeting a military gathering in the city. (CNN) (BBC News) ( Ukrainska Pravda ) (Reuters) 
 M23 campaign 
 2025 Walikale offensive 
 The Congolese media reports that M23 rebels retreating from Walikale have arrived in Kibua in North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo. (Critical Threats) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Syrian peace process 
 Groups of Kurdish -led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) militants withdraw from the two neighborhoods of Sheikh Maqsood and Achrafieh in Aleppo , Syria , as part of a deal with the Syrian government , which will eventually merge the SDF and the Syrian Armed Forces under one command. (AP) 
 Gaza war 
 More than 30 people are killed in Israeli airstrikes in Gaza . ( Channel 4 News ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Tariffs in the second Trump administration 
 China United States trade war 
 China responds to U.S. President Donald Trump 's tariffs with a 34% reciprocal tariff on imports of American goods. The tariffs will take effect on April 10. (CNN) 
 Donald Trump's Liberation Day speech 
 Multiple companies, including Klarna , StubHub , Nintendo , and Professional Sports Authenticator , pause price-sensitive business actions in the U.S. to evaluate the impact of the recent tariff announcements. ( The Wall Street Journal ) (IGN) ( The Verge ) 
 Stocks fall for the second consecutive day following Trump's recent tariff announcements. Over the past two days, the S&P 500 is down over 10%, while the FTSE 100 is down 6.97% for the week. ( The Guardian ) 
 Democratic Republic of the Congo United States relations 
 Lamuka opposition coalition spokesperson Prince Epenge criticizes the proposed minerals-for-security deal between the Democratic Republic of Congo and the United States , describing it as a "sell-off." (Critical Threats) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Ko ani nightclub fire 
 The death toll from the fire at a nightclub in Ko ani , North Macedonia , in March increases to 60 as a burn victim dies in the hospital. (AP) 
 Ten people are killed when a landslide caused by torrential rains buries two vehicles in Mojokerto , East Java , Indonesia . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Impeachment of Yoon Suk Yeol 
 The Constitutional Court of Korea unanimously upholds former President Yoon Suk Yeol 's impeachment in an 8 0 vote, removing him from office. ( The Korea Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Deportation of Kilmar Abrego Garcia 
 United States federal judge for the District Court of Maryland Paula Xinis orders the Trump administration to return Kilmar Abrego Garcia, a Salvadoran national from Maryland who was mistakenly deported and sent to the Terrorism Confinement Center in Tecoluca , El Salvador. (AP) 
 Thousands of people demonstrate in Bangui , Central African Republic , to protest against President Faustin-Archange Touad ra 's plans to run for a third term with the backing of the Russian -led Wagner Group , who has killed indiscriminately in the country. (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 25 NHL season 
 In ice hockey , Washington Capitals forward Alexander Ovechkin scores his 894th career goal, tying the all-time goals record held by Wayne Gretzky . (ESPN) 
 Month April 2025 Previous day April 3 Next day April 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_April_4&oldid=1284428028 "