
 
 
 March 1, 2024 ( 2024-03-01 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Syrian civil war 
 Iran Israel conflict during the Syrian civil war 
 An Israeli airstrike in Baniyas , Syria , kills three people, including an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps official. (Al Jazeera) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Four Mexican soldiers are killed by an improvised explosive device in a trap near Aguililla , Michoac n , Mexico . The soldiers were inspecting a camp, likely used by cartel members, when they stepped on an anti-personnel mine set in the underbrush. (AP) 
 War in Amhara 
 Intense fighting between the Fano militia and the Ethiopian government breaks out in Bahir Dar , the capital of the Amhara Region . (The East African) 
 At least eight people are injured when a suspected homemade bomb explodes in a cafe in Bengaluru , Karnataka , India . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Haitian crisis 
 The G9 gang launches an offensive in Port-au-Prince , Haiti , with its leader Jimmy Ch rizier announcing the aim of capturing Haiti's cabinet officials and police chief. Four police officers are killed in a shooting outside a police station. (AP) 
 Kenyan president William Ruto announces an agreement with Haiti to deploy 1,000 police officers as part of a mission approved by the United Nations to combat gang violence in the Caribbean nation. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A soldier kills four people in a spree shooting in Schee el and Bothel , Lower Saxony , Germany , before being arrested. (AP) 
 Nineteen people, including six children, are injured in a vehicle-ramming attack in Szczecin , Poland . (Barron's) 
 Iranian Grammy winner Shervin Hajipour is sentenced to up to four years in jail and is ordered to write anti-American music. (RFE/RL) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Finnish presidential election 
 Alexander Stubb is sworn in as the 13th President of Finland . (Reuters) 
 2024 Iranian legislative election 
 Parliamentary elections are held in Iran . (Al Jazeera) 
 Death and funeral of Alexei Navalny 
 The funeral of Russian politician and activist Alexei Navalny is held in Moscow , Russia. (AP) 
 Entertainment 
 
 Death of Akira Toriyama 
 Japanese manga artist Akira Toriyama has passed away at age 68. He is praised as one of the most influential and famous artists in the history of manga . He is most commended for the creation of the anime series, Dragon Ball . 
 Month March 2024 Previous day February 29 Next day March 2 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_March_1&oldid=1278436031 "