
 
 
 April 29, 2025 ( 2025-04-29 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kashmir conflict 
 2025 India Pakistan border skirmishes 
 Pakistani Information Minister Attaullah Tarar says that India intends to launch a military strike on Pakistan within the next 24 to 36 hours. (Reuters) 
 Rif Dimashq clashes (April 2025 present) 
 Gunmen reported to be aligned with the Syrian government engage in fatal clashes with armed Druze combatants in the Druze-majority city of Jaramana in southern Syria . At least 13 people are killed, and 12 others are injured. (Al Jazeera) (CTV News) 
 Boko Haram insurgency 
 At least 26 people are killed when a truck hits a roadside bomb in Borno State , Nigeria . (Al Jazeera) 
 A 38-year-old man suspected of seriously injuring two women on Saturday in a shooting and crossbow attack on the Otley Run pub crawl in Leeds , West Yorkshire , England , succumbs to a self-inflicted gunshot wound in the hospital. It is confirmed that the perpetrator's motive was misogyny . (BBC News) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2025 European power outage 
 At least five fatalities are reported in Spain as a consequence of the power outage that affected the Iberian Peninsula the day before. (ABC.es) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Liaoning Liaoyang Hotel Fire 
 Twenty-two people are killed and three others are injured after a fire breaks out in a restaurant in Liaoyang , Liaoning , China . (CNA) 
 Three people are killed and over 400000 lose power due to severe storms in Western Pennsylvania , United States . (CBS) 
 Three people are killed and two others are injured when scaffolding collapses at a developing liquefied natural gas plant in Port Arthur , Texas , United States . (Times Now) 
 Fifteen people are killed, including two children, and thirteen others are injured in a fire at a hotel in Kolkata , West Bengal , India. (Business Standard) (The Telegraph) 
 Eighteen Russians are injured in a bus crash in Side , Turkey . ( Telegrafi ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Jalisco extermination camp 
 Alejandro Gertz Manero , Attorney General of Mexico , concluded that the Izaguirre Ranch was used by the Jalisco New Generation Cartel as a recruitment camp between 2021 and 2024, but found no evidence that it served as an extermination site. (AP) 
 Three people are killed in a shooting at a hair salon in Uppsala , Sweden , with the perpetrator still at large. (BBC News) 
 Three people are killed and two others are seriously injured in a mass shooting in Minneapolis , Minnesota (Minnesota Public Radio) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 President of Russia Vladimir Putin signs a decree restoring the "Stalingrad" name to the Volgograd Airport . (Reuters) 
 Month April 2025 Previous day April 28 Next day April 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_April_29&oldid=1288777310 "