
 
 
 October 10, 2023 ( 2023-10-10 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2023 Nigerien crisis 
 France begins withdrawing its forces from Niger after the ruling military government ordered them to leave. (France 24) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Hajji Tower airstrike 
 At least six Palestinian journalists have been killed in Israel 's ongoing shelling of the Gaza Strip . Funerals for two of them are held at a hospital in Gaza City . (Al Jazeera) 
 2023 Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip 
 Israeli airstrikes hit near the Rafah crossing between Gaza and Egypt , after an Israeli official advised Palestinians to leave the Gaza Strip through the border crossing. (Al Jazeera) 
 The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights condemns Israel 's decision to order a blockade on Gaza, including a ban on food and water, saying that the action is in violation of international law . ( The Times of Israel ) 
 The World Health Organization calls for a humanitarian corridor into Gaza, after thirteen health facilities are damaged by Israeli attacks. (AFP via Barron's) 
 The United Nations Agency for Palestine (UNRWA) says that 187,518 people, which is nearly a tenth of Gaza's population, have fled their homes. Nearly 137,500 internally displaced people are sheltering in 83 UNRWA schools, with bread being provided by the World Food Programme . Four schools and eight healthcare facilities in Gaza also sustained damage and the territory is experiencing a severe shortage of drinking water due to the ongoing Israeli blockade. (Al Arabiya) (Al Jazeera) 
 The death toll in the Gaza Strip has increased to 950 people, with more than 4,000 injured. At least 18 people were killed, and 100 others were injured in the West Bank . The death toll in Israel surpasses 1,000. (Al Arabiya) ( The Telegraph ) ( Daily Sabah ) 
 Israeli airstrikes on Gaza damage residential buildings and large tower blocks, as well as schools and UN buildings, killing civilians . The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights condemns these actions, saying that they are in violation of international law. (Reuters) 
 Israeli airstrikes destroy a Palestinian Telecommunications Company building in Gaza City , causing widespread communications and internet outages. (Anadolu Agency) 
 An Israeli soldier and two Palestinian Islamic Jihad militants are killed in clashes on the border with Lebanon . (BBC News) 
 An Israeli airstrike kills Jawad Abu Shammala and Zakaria Abu Maamar, two senior officials of Hamas' political office. (AFP via Al Arabiya) 
 Finland reports that damage to the Balticconnector submarine pipeline connecting Finland and Estonia is being investigated as either an act of sabotage or accidental damage after officials ruled out a simple malfunction. ( The Telegraph ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Ten additional charges are filed against U.S. Rep. George Santos including identity theft , credit card fraud , and submitting false campaign reports. (Politico) 
 Natural disasters 
 
 2023 Pacific hurricane season 
 Hurricane Lidia makes landfall in the Mexican state of Jalisco as a Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir Simpson scale , killing one person. (NOAA) (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Liberian general election 
 Liberians elect their president . (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 In association football , UEFA announces that the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland will host UEFA Euro 2028 , while Italy and Turkey will host UEFA Euro 2032 . (Reuters) 
 Month October 2023 Previous day October 9 Next day October 11 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_October_10&oldid=1197707496 "