
 
 
 June 8, 2023 ( 2023-06-08 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Southern Ukraine campaign 
 Russian forces shell Kherson , injuring nine civilians near an evacuation point in a flooded part of the city following the destruction of the Kakhovka dam . ( The New York Times ) 
 The Russian Defence Ministry says it has destroyed several Ukrainian army tanks in Zaporizhzhia Oblast , including a Leopard 2 main battle tank, the first Western-made tank to be destroyed by Russian forces in the war. A video released by the ministry shows a column of tanks being hit in a field, with one of them confirmed to be a Leopard 2. (Business Insider) 
 Islamic State Taliban conflict 
 2023 Fayzabad mosque bombing 
 At least 11 people are killed and 30 others are injured by a car bomb outside a mosque in Fayzabad , Afghanistan , during a prayer service for the deputy governor of Badakhshan Province who was killed two days ago. The Islamic State claimed responsibility. (BBC News) 
 Thirteen people are killed after intercommunal fighting in a camp in Malakal , Upper Nile , South Sudan . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Samoa floods 
 Heavy rains in Savai i , Samoa , cause widespread flooding and infrastructure damage. (RNZ) 
 A Russian national is killed by a tiger shark off the coast of Hurghada , Egypt . Following the attack, authorities closed a 46 miles (74 km) stretch of the Red Sea coast until 11 June. The shark was later captured. ( The Guardian ) 
 The Philippine Institute of Volcanology issues a "level 3 alert" for Mayon Volcano in Albay due to the presence of volcanic earthquakes , indicating an increased risk of lava flows and possible eruptions. Albay Governor Edcel Lagman orders the evacuation of residents within a 6 kilometers (3.7 mi) radius of the volcano. (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2023 Marburg virus disease outbreak in Equatorial Guinea 
 The World Health Organization announces that the outbreak of Marburg virus disease in Equatorial Guinea , which has killed 35 people since February, has ended. (CBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 FBI investigation into Donald Trump's handling of government documents 
 Federal prosecution of Donald Trump 
 Former U.S. president Donald Trump is indicted on thirty-seven counts related to his mishandling of classified government documents. He is due to be arraigned in federal court in Miami , Florida , on June 13. ( The Washington Post ) 
 2023 Annecy stabbing 
 Six people, including four children, are injured in a mass stabbing at Lake Annecy in Haute-Savoie , France . The attacker, a Syrian national, is arrested. (BBC News) 
 Month June 2023 Previous day June 7 Next day June 9 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_June_8&oldid=1261616820 "