
 
 
 January 2, 2023 ( 2023-01-02 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kashmir conflict 
 2023 Rajouri attacks 
 Two children are killed and four other people are injured by an explosion outside the home of one of the four Hindus who were killed yesterday in Rajouri district , Jammu and Kashmir , India . (The Hindu) 
 Mali War 
 Two firefighters and three civilians are killed in an armed attack by Islamist insurgents along a highway between Bamako and S gou . (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Protests continue for a fifth day in Las Anod , Somaliland , with protesters demanding that the city be governed by Puntland instead of by Somaliland. Twenty people are killed in clashes between protestors and security forces. (Africanews) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Gold Coast mid-air collision 
 Four people are killed and eight others are injured when two helicopters collide near the Sea World theme park in Gold Coast, Queensland , Australia . (ABC News Australia) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Malawi suspends the opening of schools in Lilongwe and Blantyre due to an outbreak of cholera , which has killed 595 people so far, including 19 people on New Year's Eve. (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2016 Indian banknote demonetisation 
 The Supreme Court of India upholds the legality of the government 's decision to demonetise all 500 and 1,000 banknotes of the Mahatma Gandhi Series in 2016. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Qatar corruption scandal at the European Parliament 
 President of the European Parliament Roberta Metsola initiates a formal procedure to revoke parliamentary immunity from two MEPs allegedly involved in the scandal. (AFP via Bangkok Post ) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 NFL season 
 Buffalo Bills safety Damar Hamlin suffers from a cardiac arrest during a Monday Night Football game against the Cincinnati Bengals and is taken to the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center by ambulance. The NFL subsequently suspends the game and cancels it three days later. (CBS Sports) 
 Month January 2023 Previous day January 1 Next day January 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_January_2&oldid=1135444362 "