
 
 
 September 14, 2023 ( 2023-09-14 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Crimea attacks 
 Russia 's defence ministry says that it destroyed a Ukrainian boat in the Black Sea . (Al Jazeera) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Economy of Argentina 
 The National Institute of Statistics and Census announces that consumer prices in Argentina increased 12.4% in August, the highest increase since February 1991, while the annual inflation rate increased to 124.4%. (AP) 
 Economy of the European Union 
 The European Central Bank raises interest rates for the 10th time to mitigate high inflation amid concerns that higher borrowing costs could push the economy into a recession . (AP) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukraine 's foreign ministry says that any European Union plans to extend import restrictions on Ukrainian food would be "illegal" and would harm common economic interests. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Two people are killed and 25 more are injured in a collision between a bus and a truck on a highway in Rome , Italy . (Il Messaggero) 
 An explosion at the Union Pacific Railroad Bailey Yard in North Platte , Nebraska , United States , the world s largest railyard , causes evacuations in the area due to toxic smoke. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Recognition of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan , Afghanistan China relations 
 China names Zhao Seng as ambassador to Afghanistan , the first country to deliver an ambassador to Afghanistan since the 2021 Taliban offensive . However, China continues to not recognise the Taliban government. (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Brazilian Congress attack 
 The Brazilian Supreme Court announces the first conviction of a participant in the January 8 riots at the Pra a dos Tr s Poderes in Bras lia . The member, identified as A cio L cio Costa Pereira, is given a 17-year prison sentence . ( Financial Times ) 
 International Criminal Court investigation in Ukraine 
 The International Criminal Court opens a field office in Kyiv , Ukraine , as part of its war crimes investigations, becoming the largest ICC office outside of its headquarters in The Hague , Netherlands . (Al Jazeera) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Emma Coronel , the wife of Mexican drug kingpin Joaqu n "El Chapo" Guzm n , is released from U.S. federal custody after completing a three-year sentence for her involvement in drug trafficking . (AP) 
 Weiss special counsel investigation 
 Hunter Biden , son of U.S. President Joe Biden , is indicted on gun charges as part of an investigation by attorney David C. Weiss . (NBC News) 
 Argentina 's Federal Police shuts down a publisher that sold books supporting Nazi ideology , seizing hundreds of texts and arresting one person as part of what authorities characterized as a historic seizure of propaganda . (AP) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 13 Next day September 15 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_14&oldid=1291564209 "