
 
 
 February 2, 2025 ( 2025-02-02 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 War against the Islamic State 
 War in Somalia 
 American military intervention in Somalia , Islamic State insurgency in Puntland 
 The Puntland military spokesperson claims that U.S. airstrikes against ISIL have killed 46 fighters in the Cal Miskaad Mountains, a remote area in northeastern region Bari , Somalia . (Hiiraan Online) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 67th Annual Grammy Awards 
 The 67th Grammy Awards are held, with Kendrick Lamar 's diss track " Not Like Us " winning all five of the awards it was nominated for, including both Song of the Year and Record of the Year . Beyonc 's Cowboy Carter album wins Album of the Year , while Chappell Roan wins Best New Artist . ( Los Angeles Times ) ( USA Today ) ( The Hollywood Reporter ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Queensland floods 
 Two people are killed and thousands are forced to evacuate their homes in over 1,000 millimetres (39 in) of flooding in North Queensland , Australia . (BBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 Panama United States relations 
 U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio travels to Panama in his first foreign trip in the position and urges Panamanian President Jos Ra l Mulino to reduce Chinese influence in the Panama Canal . In response, Mulino said that his country won't renew its contracts with China's Belt and Road Initiative when they expire. ( Latin Times ) 
 Saudi Arabia Syria relations 
 Syrian President Ahmed al-Sharaa visits Saudi Arabia for his first trip since being named president to meet with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman . (Al Jazeera) 
 South Africa Taiwan relations 
 South Africa orders Taiwan to relocate its liaison office from Pretoria by the end of March, citing diplomatic policies favoring China . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Protests against Donald Trump 
 2025 United States protests against mass deportation 
 Thousands of demonstrators protest against immigration policies implemented by U.S. President Donald Trump in downtown Los Angeles , California , blocking the Hollywood Freeway . (KCBS-TV) 
 Month February 2025 Previous day February 1 Next day February 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_February_2&oldid=1284838391 "