
 
 
 April 27, 2024 ( 2024-04-27 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks in Russia during the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukraine says that it attacked two oil refineries and an airfield in Krasnodar Krai , Russia , using drones . (Al Arabiya) (Reuters) 
 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russian missiles strike Ukrainian power plants and natural gas storage facilities in Lviv , Ivano-Frankivsk , and Dnipropetrovsk Oblasts . (Reuters) (Reuters) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 A humanitarian aid flotilla headed for Gaza was halted in Turkey after Guinea-Bissau withdrew its flag from two out of three vessels. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Tornadoes of 2024 
 Tornado outbreak sequence of April 25 28, 2024 
 At least three fatalities are reported in Oklahoma as a tornado outbreak impacts the central United States . (CNN) (AP) 
 At least five people are killed and at least 33 others are injured by a tornado in Guangzhou , China . (CNN) 
 A magnitude -6.5 earthquake strikes off the southwestern coast of Java island, Indonesia . The epicenter of the earthquake was located about 150 kilometers away from Garut , West Java . At least four people are injured and some buildings are damaged. ( The Jakarta Post ) 
 A munitions truck explodes at a military base in Kampong Speu province , Cambodia , killing 20 soldiers and destroying multiple buildings. (Al Jazeera) (DW) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Crocus City Hall attack 
 Authorities in Russia arrest a fifth suspect in last month's attack on a music venue in Krasnogorsk, Moscow Oblast , Russia , a Tajik man accused of providing the attackers with financing and communication. (AP) 
 LGBT rights in Iraq 
 Iraq 's parliament votes to criminalize same-sex relationships , to be punishable by a maximum of 15 years in prison. (Reuters) 
 Three police officers are killed during an ambush in Ca ete , Chile , after receiving false emergency calls. They are shot dead before their vehicle is set on fire . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 United States presidential election 
 2024 Constitution Party presidential primaries 
 Randall Terry , an anti-abortion activist and candidate in the 2012 Democratic Party presidential primaries , wins the nomination for the Constitution Party . (Ballot Access News) 
 Elected British politicians who have changed party affiliation 
 Conservative MP Dan Poulter defects to the Labour Party . (BBC News) 
 Sports 
 
 Several Palmeiras players are attacked and injured by Corinthians fans during a pitch invasion at a futsal final in S o Paulo , Brazil . (UOL) 
 Month April 2024 Previous day April 26 Next day April 28 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_April_27&oldid=1221330894 "