
 
 
 March 28, 2023 ( 2023-03-28 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Yemeni Civil War 
 Six Houthis and five Yemeni soldiers are killed during clashes in government-controlled Lahj Governorate , Yemen . (Xinhua) 
 Fazil Mustafa , an opposition member of Azerbaijan 's National Assembly , is shot multiple times outside his home in Baku by unknown assailants in an assassination attempt . Mustafa's condition is described as satisfactory, and his life is not reported to be in danger. (News.az) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Ciudad Ju rez migrant center fire 
 Central and South American detainees at a migrant center in Ciudad Ju rez , Chihuahua , Mexico , deliberately set fire to their mattresses , killing 38 people and injuring 28 others. (AP) 
 Three people are killed, thirteen others are missing and 14 are rescued after a boat carrying Cameroonian migrants capsizes near Saint Kitts , Saint Kitts and Nevis . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Lisbon Ismaili Centre stabbing 
 Two Portuguese women are killed in a stabbing attack at an Isma'ilism Shia religious centre in Lisbon , Portugal . Police shoot the suspect, an Afghan man, in the leg at the scene, before arresting him and taking him to a hospital. (BBC News) 
 Killing of Hae Min Lee 
 Adnan Syed's murder conviction is reinstated by Maryland 's appeal court , less than six months after Baltimore prosecutors presented new evidence in the 1999 fatal strangulation of Hae Min Lee. (Reuters) 
 Clive Palmer sues Australia for AUD$296 billion over an iron ore project, over which his company, Mineralogy, had previously lost a lawsuit . (ABC News) 
 International relations 
 
 Philippine drug war 
 President Bongbong Marcos announces that the country will suspend relations with the International Criminal Court (ICC) due to the ICC's refusal to suspend its investigation of alleged crimes committed by the administration of former president Rodrigo Duterte during the country's war on drugs . (Bloomberg) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Scottish National Party leadership election 
 The Scottish Parliament votes to elect Scottish National Party leader Humza Yousaf as First Minister of Scotland , becoming the first non-white and first Muslim to hold the position since it was created in 1999. (STV) 
 The Labour Party 's National Executive Committee votes 22 12 to prevent former leader Jeremy Corbyn from running as a candidate in their next election. (BBC) 
 Month March 2023 Previous day March 27 Next day March 29 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_March_28&oldid=1158893064 "