
 
 
 May 4, 2025 ( 2025-05-04 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Red Sea crisis 
 2025 Houthi attack on Tel Aviv airport 
 A ballistic missile launched from Houthi-controlled Yemen hits near Ben Gurion International Airport in Central District , Israel , injuring eight people. (Reuters) ( The Telegraph ) 
 Sudanese Civil War 
 The Rapid Support Forces launch drone attacks on Port Sudan 's international civilian and military airport . Drones also hit an ammunition depot at Osman Digna Air Base, causing damage but no casualties. (Al Jazeera) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Tariffs in the second Trump administration 
 U.S. president Donald Trump announces he will introduce 100% tariffs on foreign films brought into the United States . ( The Guardian ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Ninoy Aquino International Airport car crash 
 Two people are killed and four others are injured after a car crashes into an entrance of Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Metro Manila , Philippines . The driver of the car is in police custody. (AP) (Reuters) ( Philippine Daily Inquirer ) 
 Port of Shahid Rajaee explosion 
 The casualty figure from the explosion at the Port of Shahid Rajaee in Hormozgan province , Iran , is revised by the judiciary of Iran to 57 deaths and more than 1,000 injuries. Two people, including a government official, are arrested in connection with the explosion. (Arab News) 
 Sinking of the Bayesian 
 Marine salvage experts begin operations to recover the superyacht Bayesian which sank in August 2024 and killed seven people, including British billionaire tech magnate Mike Lynch and members of his family. (CTV News) 
 Ten people are killed and 70 others are rescued and hospitalized after two passenger boats carrying 84 people capsize on the Wu River near Qianxi , Guizhou , China . ( Barron's ) (CTV News) (SCMP) 
 At least three people are killed, fifteen others are injured, including children, and several apartments are destroyed in a gas explosion at an apartment block in Moscow , Russia . (UNN) (News.AZ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Two people are arrested after planning to carry out attacks with improvised explosive devices at Lady Gaga 's concert with more than two million attendees on Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , to gain notoriety on social media. The suspects spread hate speech, mainly against children, adolescents and the LGBTQIA+ community. (BBC News) 
 Thirteen gold mine security guards that were abducted in an ambush last month in Pataz province , Peru , are found dead. (CTV News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 Romanian presidential election 
 The first round of the Romanian presidential election is held with eleven candidates on the ballot. George Simion leads the first round with 40% of the vote. As no candidate has won over 50% of the vote, a run-off between the first two candidates will be held on May 18. (BBC News) 
 2025 Lebanese municipal elections 
 First round of voting in the Lebanese municipal elections begin in the Mount Lebanon Governorate and Keserwan-Jbeil Governorate . (NBC News) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 3 Next day May 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_4&oldid=1293584522 "