
 
 
 August 31, 2023 ( 2023-08-31 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Ecuadorian security crisis 
 Fifty-seven police and prison officers are taken hostage in six different prisons in Quito as explosive attacks occur in Ecuador 's capital targeting the country's prison authority. (AFP via Malay Mail ) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Nine soldiers are killed and five more injured during a suicide bombing against a convoy in Bannu District , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (ARY News) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 An Israeli soldier is killed and two others injured during a vehicle-ramming attack at a checkpoint in Beit Sira , in the occupied West Bank . The perpetrator is shot dead. (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Johannesburg building fire 
 At least 73 people are killed by a fire in a government building that had been taken over by gangs who rented it out to squatters in Johannesburg , South Africa . (CNBC) 
 Fifteen people are killed in a fire at a clothing factory in Quezon City , Philippines . (AP) ( The New York Times ) 
 Five people are killed and seven others injured when a truck collides with several vehicles in La Guaira , Venezuela . (Xinhua) 
 Five people are killed and two others are injured when a passenger train collides with track workers doing maintenance work in Brandizzo , Piedmont , Italy . (BBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 2023 Gabonese coup d' tat 
 The African Union announces the suspension of Gabon 's membership after the country's military instigates a coup d' tat . (AFP via The Peninsula ) 
 North Korea South Korea relations 
 The Korean Central News Agency reports that North Korean forces has conducted drills simulating a nuclear missile strike on South Korea , in protest of ROKAF - USAF military drills said to simulate plans for a preemptive nuclear attack . (Reuters) 
 Sierra Leone United States relations 
 The United States announces visa restrictions for Sierra Leoneans implicated in undermining recent elections . (AFP via The Manila Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Aftermath of the January 6 United States Capitol attack 
 Criminal proceedings in the January 6 United States Capitol attack 
 Proud Boys leader Joe Biggs is sentenced to 17 years in federal prison after being convicted of seditious conspiracy in connection with the planning of the January 6 riot at the United States Capitol . (NBC News) 
 The Brazilian Federal Police questions former president Jair Bolsonaro in an investigation in which he is accused of smuggling $3 million in diamond jewelry from Saudi Arabia . (AP) 
 Month August 2023 Previous day August 30 Next day September 1 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_August_31&oldid=1174776950 "