
 
 
 December 26, 2022 ( 2022-12-26 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Western Russia attacks 
 Three Russian military members are killed by debris after Russia shoots down a drone that was approaching the Engels air base in Saratov Oblast , Russia . (AFP via Times of Israel ) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Six Syrian Democratic Forces members are killed and an unknown number of others are injured during an ambush by five Islamic State gunmen in Raqqa . One of the attackers is killed and another is arrested. (Al Jazeera) 
 Six Turkish -backed National Front for Liberation militants are killed during a fight with the Syrian Democratic Forces and the Syrian Army in Aleppo . (AP) 
 Korean conflict 
 Five North Korean drones cross the DMZ into South Korea , which prompted the South Korean military to launch aircraft to intercept the drones. One of the South Korean FA-1 light attack aircraft crashed shortly after takeoff and a North Korean drone crashed after breaching Seoul's airspace . It is believed that North Korea launched the drones in response to criticism of the quality of North Korean satellite images . (AFP via MSN) (Daily NK) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 At least ten people are killed and five others are injured when a bus hits a landmine in Fada N'gourma , Est , Burkina Faso . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Seventeen people are killed and 93 more injured as heavy snow affects Japan . (AP) 
 Three Nigerien soldiers are killed when their military helicopter crashes while attempting to land at Diori Hamani International Airport in Niamey , Niger . (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in mainland China 
 Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic 
 The National Health Commission announces that China will suspend their COVID-19 quarantine requirements for passengers arriving from abroad beginning on January 8. (ABC News) 
 Three members of the endangered Irrawaddy dolphin have died within ten days from each other in Cambodia , prompting an increasing alarming situation. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Cross-Strait relations 
 It is announced that a record seventy-one military vehicles from the Chinese Air Force entered Taiwan 's air defense identification zone in the past 24 hours. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Aftermath of the 2022 Paris shooting 
 A French judge indicts a 69-year-old man with murder, attempted murder due to race , and the unlawful procurement and possession of a weapon for killing three people and injuring three others in the 10th arrondissement of Paris on December 23. The suspect had confessed to having been motivated by racism . (AFP via Deccan Herald ) 
 Month December 2022 Previous day December 25 Next day December 27 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_December_26&oldid=1130421618 "