
 
 
 September 20, 2023 ( 2023-09-20 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Colombian conflict 
 A car bomb explodes near a police station in Timba, Cauca Department , Colombia , killing two people and wounding two others. (La Prensa Latina) 
 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
 2023 Azerbaijani offensive in Nagorno-Karabakh 
 The Artsakh Defence Army in Nagorno-Karabakh surrenders, accepting a Russian -proposed ceasefire with Azerbaijan and agreeing to vacate combat positions, disarm, and relinquish all ammunition and military equipment . (BBC News) (Reuters) (APA.az) 
 Peace talks between Azerbaijan and the separatists are expected to begin tomorrow in Yevlakh . Russia's peacekeeping contingent will assist in coordinating the ceasefire. (DW) 
 Thousands of Artsakh residents gather at the Stepanakert Airport , where some Russian peacekeepers are stationed, seeking evacuation. (CTV News) 
 Several Russian peacekeepers are killed after Azeri forces open fire on their UAZ Patriot near Chankatagh , Martakert Province . President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev apologizes for the deaths and orders an investigation into the incident. ( The Moscow Times ) (Anadolu Agency) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Three members of the South African Navy are killed and five others are rescued when large waves hit a submarine near Kommetjie , Western Cape , South Africa . (News24) 
 International relations 
 
 Armenia United States relations 
 United States and Armenian forces complete a joint military exercise in Armenia , which was not affected by the 2023 Azerbaijani offensive in Nagorno-Karabakh . (Al Jazeera) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine , Poland Ukraine relations 
 Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announces that Poland will stop supplying Ukraine with weapons, amid tensions between the two countries over the former's import ban on Ukrainian agricultural products. (CNN) 
 Vasyl Zvarych, Ukrainian Ambassador to Poland, is summoned by the Polish Foreign Ministry to convey its strong protest over the statement of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the United Nations General Assembly. Zelenskyy's statement that some European countries' actions indirectly help Russia , drew condemnation from Poland. (Ukrainian News) 
 Sixty-seven United Nations member states sign the High Seas Treaty . (AFP via France 24) 
 Science and technology 
 
 The oldest known wooden structure, a 476,000-year-old log structure, is discovered at the Kalambo Falls in Zambia according to a study from the Nature journal . (Live Science) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 19 Next day September 21 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_20&oldid=1224688179 "