
 
 
 July 10, 2024 ( 2024-07-10 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas War 
 Siege of Gaza City 
 The Israel Defense Forces orders a complete evacuation of all Palestinians from Gaza City to areas south of the city in advance of a new offensive against Hamas . (AP) 
 United States support for Israel in the Israel Hamas war 
 U.S. President Joe Biden 's administration resumes shipments of 500-pound bombs to Israel following a suspension in May 2024 due to worries of harm to Palestinian civilians. The initial suspension provoked public criticism from Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu . (Reuters) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Four security officials and three Pakistani Taliban insurgents are killed in a shootout in Peshawar , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (AP) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Two Ukrainians are killed by Russian drone and missile attacks on a port in southern Odesa Oblast , Ukraine , which damaged port infrastructure, an energy facility, and a civilian ship. (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The National Samsung Electronics Union announces that around 30,000 Samsung Electronics workers will now strike indefinitely after accusing the company of refusing to hold talks on better pay. (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Thirteen people, including 12 children, are killed in a school bus crash in Merafong , Gauteng , South Africa . (AP) 
 A plane fighting the Horse Gulch fire crashes into Hauser Lake in Montana , United States , killing the pilot onboard. (KWYB) 
 International relations 
 
 2024 Washington summit , Foreign relations of China , China and the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 NATO Washington Summit Declaration 
 All 32 NATO member states approve an official statement classifying China as a "decisive enabler" of Russia's invasion of Ukraine due to its "no-limits" economic and political partnership with Russia . (AP) 
 Russia Saudi Arabia relations , International sanctions during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Bloomberg reports that Saudi Arabia warned the G7 earlier this year that it would sell off Eurobonds and French bonds if the G7 proceeded with the seizure of US$280 billion in Russian frozen assets to give to Ukraine . ( The Kyiv Independent ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment in Iraq 
 A criminal court in Baghdad , Iraq , sentences the widow of Islamic State caliph Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi to death over her ties to the Islamic State and for detaining Yazidi women in her house. (Al Arabiya) 
 Killings of Carol, Hannah and Louise Hunt 
 Louise's ex-boyfriend Kyle Clifford, wanted for the crossbow attack in Bushey, Hertfordshire , United Kingdom , is arrested in Enfield, London . ( USA Today ) 
 Two Australian tourists and a Filipino woman are killed during a mass stabbing at a hotel in Tagaytay , Philippines . (AP) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Researchers from Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and Harvard Medical School publish a claim for the cause and curative path for the autoimmune disease systemic lupus erythematosus in the journal Nature . (Newsmax) ( Nature ) 
 Month July 2024 Previous day July 9 Next day July 11 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_July_10&oldid=1234200674 "