
 
 
 May 23, 2024 ( 2024-05-23 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2024 Kharkiv offensive 
 Seven people are killed and at least 28 others are injured in Russian missile strikes in Liubotyn and Kharkiv , Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 Crimea attacks 
 At least two people are killed in a Ukrainian missile strike on Alushta , Crimea . Explosions are reported across the peninsula and Ukrainian media reports that multiple targets were hit. (Reuters) 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 Russian forces captures the village of Andriivka in Donetsk Oblast . ( The Daily Telegraph ) 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip 
 At least 60 Palestinians are killed in Israeli attacks in Rafah , Deir al-Balah , and Gaza City , Gaza . (Al Jazeera) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Pope Francis and the Dicastery for the Causes of Saints approves the canonization of Carlo Acutis , who will become the first millennial saint. (Holy See) (BBC News) 
 Romanian author Mircea C rt rescu wins the International Dublin Literary Award for his novel Solenoid , translated by Sean Cotter. ( The Guardian ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Eleven people are killed and two others are injured in an explosion at a sugar factory in Morogoro , Tanzania . (AP) 
 Four people are killed and 16 others are injured when the second floor of a restaurant collapses in Palma de Mallorca , Spain . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Cross-Strait relations 
 China 's People's Liberation Army begins two days of military drills around Taiwan . In response, Taiwan mobilizes its military . (BBC News) (Reuters) 
 Diplomatic missions to Palestine 
 Colombian President Gustavo Petro orders the opening of an embassy in Ramallah in the West Bank . (Al Jazeera) 
 Kenya United States relations 
 U.S. President Joe Biden announces during a state visit by Kenyan President William Ruto that he will designate Kenya a major non-NATO ally as it is expected to lead the international intervention in Haiti . (Reuters) (NPR) 
 Russia removes the border markers signaling the border with Estonia on the Narva River , prompting a protest by the EU. (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 United States v. Live Nation Entertainment 
 The United States Department of Justice sues Ticketmaster and its parent company Live Nation , seeking the breakup of the company and accusing the company of creating a monopoly by eliminating competition and increasing prices. (AP) 
 Three people are killed and five others are injured in a shootout between two groups at a caf in Istanbul , Turkey . ( Metro ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 The United Nations General Assembly votes 84 19, with 68 abstentions, to establish July 11 as an annual day of remembrance for the Srebrenica genocide , despite receiving opposition from Serbia and Bosnian Serbs . (Al Jazeera) 
 Month May 2024 Previous day May 22 Next day May 24 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_May_23&oldid=1225599374 "