
 
 
 September 23, 2024 ( 2024-09-23 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 September 2024 Lebanon strikes 
 Over 492 people are killed and 1,645 others are injured when the Israeli Air Force conducts over 1,400 airstrikes in Lebanon targeting Hezbollah , the deadliest day of conflict since the 2006 Lebanon War . ( New York Times ) (Al Jazeera) (AP) 
 Hezbollah launches dozens of rockets and drones at Israel in retaliation for the airstrikes. (CBS News) 
 The United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon advises all posted civilian employees to evacuate southern Lebanon . ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 The Israeli military advises Lebanese civilians in southern Lebanon to evacuate north. (AP) 
 The United States deploys additional military forces to the Middle East following significantly escalating conflict between Israel and Hezbollah and a potential wider regional conflict, adding to the 40,000 U.S. troops already present in the region. (AP) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2024 Kursk offensive 
 The Russian Foreign Ministry reports that at least 56 Russian civilians were killed and 266 others were injured by the Armed Forces of Ukraine in Kursk Oblast , Russia , which the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry denies as Russian propaganda . (Reuters) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Swedish lithium-ion technology developer Northvolt announces revised company operational scopes and its intention to layoff 1,600 workers in the country. (CBC) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Pacific hurricane season 
 Hurricane John makes landfall near Marquelia , Guerrero , Mexico , as a Category 3 hurricane . (AP) (NHC) 
 Mediterranean Sea migrant smuggling 
 At least four people are found dead after a small boat carrying migrants sinks off the coast of Samos , Greece . (AP) 
 At least 30 decomposing bodies are found in a boat off the coast of Dakar , Senegal . (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2023 2024 mpox epidemic 
 The World Health Organization announces that nearly 30,000 suspected mpox cases have been reported in Africa so far this year, primarily in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , as the death toll from mpox surpasses 800 people. (Reuters) 
 Deforestation of the Amazon rainforest 
 Climate researchers report that since 1985, deforestation in the Amazon has caused the loss of an area of rainforest equal to the combined area of France and Germany . (France 24) 
 International relations 
 
 Argentina Venezuela relations 
 A court in Argentina orders the arrest of Venezuelan president Nicol s Maduro and interior minister Diosdado Cabello , accusing them of crimes against humanity . ( Infobae ) 
 The Supreme Court of Venezuela orders the arrest of Argentinian President Javier Milei after Argentina detains a Venezuelan aircraft. (AP) 
 Japan Russia relations 
 Japanese fighter jets fire warning flares at a Russian aircraft that violated Japanese airspace off Rebun Island . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2021 Boulder shooting 
 Ahmad Alissa, the gunman responsible for killing ten people at a supermarket in Boulder , Colorado , United States , in 2021, is convicted of ten counts of first-degree murder and sentenced to ten consecutive life sentences . (AP) 
 2024 social unrest in Martinique 
 The Government of France sends the Companies for Republican Security riot police unit to Martinique , following resistance from cost of living and social inequality protesters against French -issued bans on demonstrations. (AP) 
 German police announce that they found 95 kg (209 lb) of cocaine worth 7 million ($7.8 million) hidden inside banana crates in supermarkets across North Rhine-Westphalia , Germany . (DW) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 AFL season 
 2024 Brownlow Medal 
 In Australian football , Patrick Cripps wins his second Brownlow Medal with 45 votes, the most votes since the current voting system was introduced, and also becomes the seventeenth player to win the award more than once. (ABC News Australia) 
 Month September 2024 Previous day September 22 Next day September 24 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_September_23&oldid=1259319817 "