
 
 
 December 7, 2023 ( 2023-12-07 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Baldur's Gate 3 wins Game of the Year at The Game Awards 2023 . (Polygon) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Guyana Defence Force helicopter crash 
 The Guyanese government confirms that five military officers who were in a Bell 412EP helicopter that crashed near the border with Venezuela were killed and that two others survived the crash. The helicopter went missing on Wednesday during bad weather conditions. It is the deadliest incident in Guyanese military history. (AP) 
 2023 Mah explosion 
 The Seychelles declares a state of emergency after a large explosion in an industrial area on Mah destroys commercial buildings and nearby residential housing, injuring people and also damaging the Seychelles International Airport . A separate state of emergency is also declared for ongoing floods in the country, which have killed at least three people. (Al Jazeera) 
 A Royal Saudi Air Force F-15SA Strike Eagle crashes during a training mission in Dhahran , Saudi Arabia , killing both pilots. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Weiss special counsel investigation 
 U.S. first son Hunter Biden is indicted on nine tax-related charges , three felonies and nine misdemeanors , in California . (AP) 
 Bryansk school shooting 
 A 14-year-old girl opens fire at a school in Bryansk , Russia , killing one person and injuring five others before killing herself . (AP) 
 The Danish Parliament votes to criminalize the desecration of religious texts after a series of Quran-burnings by far-right activists. (AFP via France 24) 
 A woman tries to burn down the former residence of Martin Luther King Jr. at the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park in Atlanta , Georgia, US, before bystanders intervene. (NPR) 
 Month December 2023 Previous day December 6 Next day December 8 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_December_7&oldid=1268621120 "