
 
 
 May 9, 2024 ( 2024-05-09 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Rafah offensive 
 Israeli tanks and warplanes strike eastern Rafah . 80,000 people have fled Rafah throughout the week. (Reuters) 
 United States support for Israel in the Israel Hamas war 
 U.S. President Joe Biden threatens to withhold weapons from Israel if it launches a major invasion of Rafah. (Reuters) 
 Middle Eastern crisis (2023 present) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 The Houthis claim responsibility for attacks on three container ships in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean . (Al Jazeera) 
 Israeli far-right extremists launch two arson attacks on the perimeter of the UNRWA headquarters in East Jerusalem , forcing it to temporarily close down. ( The Guardian ) 
 Syrian civil war , 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Four Hezbollah militants killed in an Israeli airstrike in Bafliyeh , Lebanon. (L'Orient le Jour) 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Assassination attempts on Volodymyr Zelenskyy 
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy fires the head of the state guards Serhiy Rud after allegations that two members of the guards were involved in an assassination plot against Zelenskyy. (Al Jazeera) (Reuters) 
 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action , Iran Israel relations 
 Iran warns that it will build a nuclear weapon if Israel continues to target its nuclear facilities . (Al Jazeera) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Air India Express cancels 85 flights due to staff calling in sick at the last minute, which is related to a protest against working conditions imposed by the airline's new owner Tata Group . (Al Jazeera) 
 Air Vanuatu cancels all of its flights as the Vanuatu Government considers putting the airline into voluntary administration . (ABC News Australia) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Rio Grande do Sul floods 
 The death toll from the ongoing heavy flooding in southern Brazil increases to 107, with at least 136 people still missing and 165,000 people displaced. (Reuters) 
 Two Boeing 737 planes are involved in accidents involving takeoff and landing in Senegal and Turkey . (Al Jazeera) 
 International relations 
 
 Australia Tuvalu relations 
 Australia and Tuvalu sign a new security agreement , whereby Australia agrees to protect Tuvalu during natural disasters , pandemics , or military aggression . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Former Fijian prime minister Frank Bainimarama is sentenced to one year in prison for perverting the course of justice . (ABC News Australia) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Thousands of pro- Palestinian protesters march in Malm , Sweden , against Israel 's participation in the Eurovision Song Contest . Among the protesters is Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg . (AP) 
 Trade unions in Argentina launch a general strike against President Javier Milei 's planned reforms and budget cuts. (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 Bayer Leverkusen breaks Benfica 's record of 48 undefeated games in modern European men's club association football . (The Athletic) 
 Month May 2024 Previous day May 8 Next day May 10 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_May_9&oldid=1253347638 "