
 
 
 August 24, 2022 ( 2022-08-24 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian occupation of Zaporizhzhia Oblast 
 The Russian -appointed head of Mykhailivka in Zaporizhzhia Oblast , Ivan Sushko, is assassinated in a car bombing. (Euro Weekly News) 
 Chaplyne railway station attack 
 At least 25 people are killed and more than 50 others are injured in a Russian rocket attack on a passenger train in Chaplyne , Dnipropetrovsk Oblast . ( The Guardian ) (Reuters) 
 Foreign aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 The United States announces a security package of nearly $ 3 billion from the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative . (CBS News) 
 American-led intervention in the Syrian civil war , Russia United States relations 
 U.S. President Joe Biden orders airstrikes against claimed Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and Russia-linked groups in Syria in response to a August 15 rocket attack near the U.S. military base in al-Tanf , Syria, which houses the Maghaweir al-Thowra rebel group , and an airstrike by the Russian military in an area held by the Syrian opposition . The U.S. strikes targeted eleven bunkers in Deir ez-Zor used to store weapons, according to the United States Central Command . (CNN) (Reuters) 
 A spokesperson for the Iranian foreign ministry denies that Iran has any link to targets hit by U.S. in Syria and condemns the strike as "a violation of Syria's sovereignty and territorial integrity". (Reuters) ( Middle East Eye ) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Eight people are killed in a shooting between two criminal groups in Tuzantla , Michoac n , Mexico . (AP) 
 Tigray War 
 Fighting resumes between the Ethiopian military and the Tigray Defense Forces in the Tigray Region . Both sides blame each other for breaking the ceasefire. ( The Guardian ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Hydrail 
 Germany and French rail transport manufacturer Alstom inaugurate the world's first fleet of hydrogen fuel -powered trains in Lower Saxony . The 14 hydrogen trains will replace a fleet of diesel locomotives on 100 kilometres (62 mi) of track in the German state. (Al Jazeera) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Tuvalu declares a drought and a shortage of drinking water on the islands of Nanumea , Nui , and Niutao . (RNZ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Censorship in Russia 
 Police arrest Kremlin critic Yevgeny Roizman , the former mayor of Yekaterinburg , for "discrediting the Russian army" by criticizing the invasion of Ukraine . (Al Arabiya) 
 Aftermath of the 2020 Calabasas helicopter crash 
 A United States grand jury awards former professional basketball player Kobe Bryant 's widow, Vanessa Bryant , $ 16 million against the Los Angeles County sheriff's and fire departments for releasing graphic photographs of the former player, their 13-year-old daughter, and the other victims of the helicopter crash. Another victim's widow receives $15 million. ( The Manila Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Angolan general election 
 Angolans vote to elect their president in a tight race between incumbent leftist candidate Jo o Louren o and center- right candidate Adalberto Costa J nior . (MSN) 
 The Constitutional Court of Thailand temporarily suspends Prayut Chan-o-cha 's premiership due to a case filed by Pheu Thai Party lawmakers over whether the eight-year term limit for premiership should also include Prayut's time as the leader of National Council for Peace and Order . Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwan will take over the premiership while the case is being heard. (Reuters) 
 Month August 2022 Previous day August 23 Next day August 25 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_August_24&oldid=1258139008 "