
 
 
 April 19, 2023 ( 2023-04-19 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 War in Sudan (2023) 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Germany announces the suspension of its attempt to rescue 150 German citizens from Khartoum . ( The New York Times ) (Reuters) 
 2023 Sudanese refugee crisis 
 Thousands of Sudanese civilians cross the closed border with Chad as refugees and are detained , according to Chadian Defence Minister Daoud Yaya Brahim. Brahim also states that the Chad National Army detained and disarmed a contingent of 320 Sudanese troops who crossed the border. (TRT World) (Reuters) 
 Evacuation of foreign nationals during the War in Sudan (2023) 
 The United Kingdom , Germany , and Japan urge their citizens to seek shelter, hide, or evacuate due to ongoing fighting. (Sky News) (The Print India) 
 Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno says that Japan will send a Self-Defense Forces aircraft to evacuate 60 Japanese nationals from Sudan . ( Asahi Shimbun ) 
 Satellite imagery reveals that at least one Egyptian Air Force MiG-29 was destroyed at an airbase in Merowe , with at least two others heavily damaged. (The Drive) 
 Mali War 
 Four people are killed and several others are reported missing after jihadists ambush a Malian government delegation near Nara , Koulikoro Region , Mali . ( Barron's ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2023 Canadian federal worker strike 
 Over 155,000 Canadian federal workers go on strike after the Public Service Alliance of Canada failed to reach an agreement with the government over pay raises and remote work . (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Sanaa crowd crush 
 At least 90 people are killed and 322 others are injured in a crowd crush in Sanaa , Yemen during a charity event. (Egypt Independent) 
 Health and environment 
 
 List of heat waves 
 A heatwave in Asia leads to deaths and school closures in India , and record-breaking temperatures in other countries. Luang Prabang , Laos , recorded a temperature of 42.7 C (108.9 F), while Tak , Thailand , recorded a temperature of 44.6 C (112.3 F). ( The Guardian ) 
 A report by the United Nations Population Fund estimates that India will surpass China as the most populous country in the world by the middle of this year. (NBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 Bulgaria Ukraine relations 
 Bulgaria temporarily bans the import of grain from Ukraine , except for those in transit, following similar decisions made by Poland , Hungary , and Slovakia . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Crime in Costa Rica 
 President Rodrigo Chaves orders a series of measures to fight increasing crime in Costa Rica , including the deployment of more police, tougher juvenile laws, extradition of foreign criminals, and restrictions on the sale of ammunition. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Brazilian Congress attack 
 Secretary of Institutional Security of Brazil Marco Edson Gon alves Dias resigns over his presence at the presidential palace during the attack. He is replaced by Ricardo Cappelli . (Reuters) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 18 Next day April 20 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_19&oldid=1291564610 "