
 
 
 April 11, 2024 ( 2024-04-11 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Mykolaiv strikes 
 At least four people are killed and five others are injured in a Russian missile strike in Mykolaiv . (Reuters) 
 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russia launches missile and drone strikes across Ukraine , damaging power facilities and causing widespread power outages for about 200,000 people. Ukraine says that the Trypilska thermal power plant in Kyiv Oblast was destroyed in an overnight attack. (Reuters) (Bloomberg) 
 Iran Israel proxy conflict 
 Israeli bombing of the Iranian embassy in Damascus 
 Russia warns its citizens against travelling to the Middle East amid increasing tensions between Iran and Israel . (CNBC) 
 U.S. President Joe Biden warns that Iran is threatening to launch a significant attack against Israel and promises "ironclad U.S. support" for Israel in the event of an attack. (BBC News) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 The Karen National Union , local PDF groups, and other Karenni organizations seize the town of Myawaddy , Kayin State , from the Tatmadaw after three days of fighting. Junta planes subsequently bomb the town, causing more than 1,000 locals to flee into neighbouring Thailand . (CNN) (Radio Free Asia) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Archaeologists announce the discovery of new frescos at the ancient Roman city of Pompeii , depicting mythological ancient Greek figures. (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Lake Suviana explosion 
 A search operation at a power plant on Lake Suviana , near Bologna , Italy , has recovered the bodies of three workers who were missing after an explosion two days ago. This brings the confirmed death toll to six. A seventh worker is still missing, while the five injured are still in critical conditions. (Il Resto del Carlino) 
 A Robinson R22 helicopter owned by the Philippine Air Force crashes near a public market in Cavite City , Philippines , killing both pilots. (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment in Vietnam 
 A court in Vietnam sentences tycoon Tr ng M Lan to death for embezzling $12.46 billion from the Sai Gon Joint Stock Commercial Bank . (DW) 
 Thirty-eight prisoners escape from a prison in Moroni , Comoros . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 South Korean legislative election 
 South Korean prime minister Han Duck-soo and all senior advisers to President Yoon Suk Yeol resign en masse in response to the results of yesterday's parliamentary elections. (ABC News) 
 The Netherlands increases its military budget to 2 percent of its GDP for the first time since 1994. ( Algemeen Dagblad ) 
 Month April 2024 Previous day April 10 Next day April 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_April_11&oldid=1218707346 "