
 
 
 September 2, 2022 ( 2022-09-02 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Afghanistan conflict 
 Islamic State Taliban conflict 
 2022 Herat mosque bombing 
 Eighteen people are killed and 23 others are injured by a suicide bombing at a Sunni mosque in Herat , Afghanistan . The mosque's pro- Taliban imam , who is suspected to be the target of the attack, is among the dead. (Reuters) 
 Colombian conflict 
 2022 Huila attack 
 Seven policemen are killed and one is injured during an ambush in Huila Department , Colombia . Their vehicle hit a roadside bomb before being shot dead by gunmen. (BBC News) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 A Palestinian man stabs and injures an Israeli soldier near Kiryat Arba in the West Bank . The attacker is shot dead by security forces. (AP) 
 The Iranian Navy captures and later releases two American sea drones in the Red Sea . (MSN) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 present global energy crisis 
 The G7 group of nations announce plans for a price cap on Russian oil. Russia vows to halt sales to countries imposing it. (Reuters) 
 2022 Russia European Union gas dispute 
 Following the G7's announcement, Russia's Gazprom announces that flows through the Nord Stream 1 natural gas pipeline to Europe will not resume tomorrow because of a reported "oil leak" in a turbine. It did not give a new time frame. (Reuters) (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 Atlantic hurricane season 
 Hurricane Danielle becomes the first hurricane of the Atlantic season. (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Deposed leader of Myanmar Aung San Suu Kyi is sentenced to three years in prison after being found guilty of election fraud . She will now serve an overall sentence of 20 years in prison for different charges. (Al Jazeera) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Exile of Gotabaya Rajapaksa 
 Former president Gotabaya Rajapaksa returns to Colombo , Sri Lanka , after seven weeks of exile . (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 FINA permits the use of special swim caps specifically designed for dreadlocks , hair weaves or extensions , and voluminous hair, branded as the Soul Cap, in all water sports competitions. It had been banned at the 2020 Summer Olympics . (CNN) 
 Month September 2022 Previous day September 1 Next day September 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_September_2&oldid=1111707099 "