
 
 
 February 6, 2024 ( 2024-02-06 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 DHKP/C insurgency in Turkey 
 2024 Istanbul Palace of Justice shooting 
 Two Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front shooters open fire outside the Istanbul Justice Palace in Turkey , killing one person and injuring five others, before being killed in a shootout with police. (Al Jazeera) 
 Somali civil war 
 2024 Mogadishu market bombing 
 Ten people are killed and about 20 others are injured in a quadruple bombing at a market in Mogadishu , Somalia . (Al Jazeera) 
 The Greek island of Aegina is left without drinking water after an explosion disables a 12-kilometer-long (7.5-mile) undersea fresh water pipeline. Greater Athens governor Nikos Hardalias calls it an act of sabotage . (AP) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The Dutch owner of Yandex , a Russian multinational technology company and search engine , announces the sale of the company to a "fully Russian-owned entity" for 475 billion rubles ( US$ 5.2 billion). (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Death and state funeral of Sebasti n Pi era 
 Former Chilean president Sebasti n Pi era dies in a helicopter crash in Ranco Lake , Chile. (Reuters) 
 Eleven people are killed and 150 others are injured in a fire at a fireworks factory in Harda , Madhya Pradesh , India . (AP) 
 2024 Maco landslide 
 At least seven people are killed in a landslide in Maco, Davao de Oro , Philippines . Search and rescue operations are ongoing for 48 others missing, which include mine workers . (AFP via The Philippine Star ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 United States presidential election 
 2024 Republican Party presidential primaries 
 2024 Nevada Republican presidential nominating contests 
 Nevada holds its Republican Party presidential primary . However, the Republican Party boycotts the primary and will award no delegates to the winner. The party plans to hold a presidential caucus on February 8 to award its delegates. (Al Jazeera) 
 Attempts to overturn the 2020 United States presidential election , Federal prosecution of Donald Trump 
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C. rules that former President Donald Trump does not have presidential immunity and can therefore be prosecuted for allegedly attempting to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election . (BBC News) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 5 Next day February 7 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_6&oldid=1206706987 "