
 
 
 November 20, 2022 ( 2022-11-20 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant crisis 
 The Russian-controlled Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant in Enerhodar is shelled , with damage occurring to some buildings, systems, and equipment, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency . (Reuters) 
 Kurdish Turkish conflict , Syrian civil war 
 Operation Claw-Sword 
 The Turkish Air Force launches a series of airstrikes against the Kurdish -led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and Syrian Army positions in Northern Syria , and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Iraqi Kurdistan following the Istanbul bombing , which Ankara blames on Kurdish separatists . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reports that at least 35 people were killed, including 18 SDF fighters and 16 Syrian troops. (Al Jazeera) (SOHR) 
 Insurgency in Cabo Delgado 
 A humanitarian aid worker for the French NGO Solidarit s International and a few other civilians are killed in an ambush in the Cabo Delgado Province of Mozambique . (News360) 
 International relations 
 
 Egypt Turkey relations 
 Egyptian president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdo an meet for the first time following their opposing involvements in the 2013 Egyptian coup d' tat . (AFP via The Straits Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Colorado Springs nightclub shooting 
 Five people are killed and 25 others injured in a mass shooting at a gay bar in Colorado Springs , Colorado , United States , during a drag show and a commemoration of the Transgender Day of Remembrance . A suspect is taken into custody shortly afterward. (CNN) 
 Two people are killed and two others are seriously injured after a car hit a group of people in Oldbury, West Midlands , United Kingdom . A suspect has been arrested by West Midlands Police . (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Malaysian general election 
 The results from yesterday's election indicate that Malaysia will experience a hung parliament in the Dewan Rakyat for the first time in its history. (CNN) 
 Opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim , whose Pakatan Harapan coalition won the most seats, and former prime minister Muhyiddin Yassin of Perikatan Nasional both claim to have the necessary support to establish a new government , but neither have announced the parties involved. (Free Malaysia Today) 
 2022 Kazakh presidential election 
 Kazakhs head to the polls to elect their president in a snap election . Exit polls suggest that President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev will be re-elected to a seven-year term. (AFP via TRT World) (DW) 
 2022 Equatorial Guinean general election 
 Equatorial Guineans head to the polls to elect their president and members of parliament . (AFP via The Citizen ) 
 2022 Nepalese general election 
 Nepalis head to the polls to elect the 275 members of the House of Representatives . (Al Arabiya) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 FIFA World Cup 
 The 22nd edition of the FIFA World Cup opens in Qatar , with Ecuador defeating the hosts 2 0 in the opening match at the Al Bayt Stadium in Al Khor . Qatar becomes the first host nation to lose their opening match in World Cup history. (AP) 
 109th Grey Cup , 2022 CFL season 
 The Toronto Argonauts defeat the Winnipeg Blue Bombers 24 23 to secure their 18th Canadian Football League championship. (CBC) 
 2022 ATP Finals 
 Novak Djokovic of Serbia defeats Casper Ruud of Norway in two sets , 7 5, 6 3, to win his sixth ATP Finals title, equaling Roger Federer 's record. Djokovic becomes the oldest singles champion at 35 years old. He also claims the biggest payday in tennis history, a record $4,740,300 in prize money. (AFP via Manila Bulletin ) 
 Month November 2022 Previous day November 19 Next day November 21 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_November_20&oldid=1291302298 "