
 
 
 April 16, 2023 ( 2023-04-16 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 War in Sudan (2023) 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 The Sudanese military is said to have retaken control of the presidential palace and other key government installations in Khartoum . The military says Khartoum International Airport remains under the control of Rapid Support Forces , but that it was holding back from launching airstrikes to avoid destroying the airport. (Reuters) 
 Syrian civil war 
 2023 Hama attack 
 Thirty-six people are killed when Islamic State gunmen ambush a group of truffle hunters in Hama Governorate . Five shepherds are also killed near Deir ez-Zor . (France 24) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 Thirty-four VDP and six soldiers are killed during an ambush in the village of Aorema, Ouahigouya , Nord , Burkina Faso . Thirty-three other people are injured. (Al Jazeera) 
 Nigerian bandit conflict 
 At least 33 people are killed when armed bandits storm a village in Runji, Kaduna . (AP) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Ukraine and Russia conduct a prisoner swap for soldiers who fought in Bakhmut , with 130 Ukrainian soldiers returning and an unknown amount of Russian soldiers returning. (PBS) 
 International relations 
 
 China Russia relations 
 Chinese Minister of Defense Li Shangfu meets President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu in Moscow , as part of his four-day visit to Russia . (CBS News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2021 2023 inflation surge 
 Thousands of people protest against rising inflation at Wenceslas Square in Prague , Czech Republic , demanding the government 's resignation . (VOA) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Olkiluoto Nuclear Power Plant 
 After 18 years under construction, the Olkiluoto 3 reactor in Finland , Europe 's most powerful nuclear power plant unit at 1.6 GW, begins delivering regular electrical output. (Reuters) (Bloomberg) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 15 Next day April 17 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_16&oldid=1185560184 "