
 
 
 April 17, 2024 ( 2024-04-17 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 18 people are killed and 78 others are injured in a Russian missile strike which damaged an eight-storey building in a densely populated area of Chernihiv . (BBC News) (Reuters) 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Fourteen Israeli soldiers and four civilians injured in drone attacks in northern Israel . One IDF officer later succumbs. (Reuters) (The Times of Israel) 
 War in Sudan 
 Taqaddum leader and former Prime Minister of Sudan Abdalla Hamdok meets with French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris , France . (Dabanga Sudan) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Vietnam announces a $24 billion rescue for the Sai Gon Joint Stock Commercial Bank , which is currently involved in a fraud case. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Persian Gulf floods 
 The United Arab Emirates records its heaviest rainfall in 75 years, with significant flooding reported in Dubai . At least 20 people are killed by flooding in Oman and Ras Al Khaimah . ( The Guardian ) (Reuters) 
 Hundreds of people are evacuated after the Ruang volcano erupts in North Sulawesi , Indonesia . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Sanctions during the Venezuelan crisis 
 The Biden administration announces that it will reimpose oil sanctions on Venezuela . ( The Washington Post ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Switzerland 's Federal Assembly votes to ban public displays of the Nazi swastika . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Croatian parliamentary election 
 Voters in Croatia elect the members of the Sabor . The ruling Croatian Democratic Union and its coalition win the most seats, but fail to obtain a majority. (Reuters) 
 2024 Solomon Islands general election 
 Voters in Solomon Islands elect a new National Parliament . ( The Guardian ) 
 Impeachment of Alejandro Mayorkas 
 The United States Senate votes to dismiss both impeachment articles against Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas , by a vote of 51 48 on the first article and 51 49 on the second. (Reuters) (CNN) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Scientists announce that they have identified fossil remains of the Ichthyotitan , the largest marine reptile currently known, in the Westbury Formation in England . (NOS) 
 Sports 
 
 In basketball , the NBA announces that it has banned Jontay Porter , a two-way player under contract to the Toronto Raptors and their G League affiliate Raptors 905 , for multiple major violations of the league's gambling policy. (NBA) (ESPN) 
 Month April 2024 Previous day April 16 Next day April 18 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_April_17&oldid=1276184190 "