
 
 
 November 15, 2022 ( 2022-11-15 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 missile explosion in Poland 
 A missile strike kills two people in the village of Przewod w in eastern Poland . President of the United States Joe Biden says that the missile blast in Poland was caused by a Ukrainian air defense missile. U.S. officials had earlier told the Associated Press that preliminary findings suggested that the missile that hit Poland was fired by Ukrainian forces at an incoming Russian missile. (Reuters) (Reuters 2) 
 The Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs says that it was a "Russian-made missile" and summons the Russian ambassador to provide an explanation. (Reuters) (AP) 
 November 2022 nationwide missile strikes on Ukraine 
 Russian missiles strike several cities across Ukraine , including Kyiv , causing "critical" damage to energy facilities. ( The Guardian ) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 November 2022 Ariel attack 
 Three Israelis are killed and three others are injured after a 18-year-old Palestinian man carries out a vehicle-ramming attack and mass stabbing in the Ariel settlement in the occupied West Bank . The perpetrator is shot dead. ( Times of Israel ) 
 The United States opens an investigation into the death of journalist Shireen Abu Akleh , who was killed in the West Bank in May. (T lam) 
 Yemeni Civil War 
 Foreign involvement in the Yemeni Civil War 
 The US Navy says that it stopped an Iranian shipment of 70 tons of missile fuel components and fertilizer to Yemen . The shipment would likely be used by the Houthis , who are Iran's allies. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2022 south eastern Australia floods 
 Flooding continues in Australia , with over 220 people being rescued from floodwaters in New South Wales in the past 24 hours. (ABC News Australia) 
 At least three people are killed and six others are injured after a multi-storey building collapses in Nairobi , Kenya . ( The Washington Post ) 
 Fourteen people are killed after a minibus and a truck collide in Abu Minqar , New Valley Governorate , Egypt . (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 Day of Eight Billion 
 The world population surpasses eight billion people, according to the United Nations . ( The Times ) 
 International relations 
 
 2022 G20 Bali summit 
 The Group of Twenty begins its annual two-day summit in Nusa Dua , Bali , Indonesia . (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Mahsa Amini protests 
 Protests are held across Iran to mark the third anniversary of the 2019 protests . Protesters blocked streets and a large strike has been reported. (Iran International) 
 2024 Republican Party presidential primaries 
 Former President Donald Trump announces he is running for the Republican Party 's nomination in the 2024 U.S. presidential election . (CNN) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 ATP Tour 
 At 19 years old, Spanish tennis player Carlos Alcaraz becomes the youngest year-end world No. 1 - ranked singles player by the Association of Tennis Professionals after his closest rival, fellow Spaniard Rafael Nadal , failed to advance to the semifinals of the 2022 ATP Finals . Alcaraz breaks Australian player Lleyton Hewitt 's record that he achieved in 2001. ( The Courier-Mail ) 
 Month November 2022 Previous day November 14 Next day November 16 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_November_15&oldid=1122975185 "