
 
 
 January 24, 2023 ( 2023-01-24 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 Battle of Soledar 
 Two British aid workers are killed during a humanitarian evacuation from Soledar in Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine . (BBC News) 
 Germany Ukraine relations 
 German Chancellor Olaf Scholz announces that Germany will send Leopard 2 main battle tanks to Ukraine , and will also allow other operators of the tanks, such as Poland , to send them to Ukraine. (Reuters) 
 Sistan and Baluchestan insurgency 
 Two police officers are killed and a third is injured in an attack in Sistan and Baluchestan , Iran . (Al Arabiya) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 List of earthquakes in 2023 
 At least one person is killed and two others are injured by a 5.9 magnitude earthquake in Bajura and Bajhang Districts , Nepal . (MyRepublica) 
 Three people are killed, twelve are missing and twelve are rescued after a building collapses in Lucknow , Uttar Pradesh , India , due to the earthquake in Nepal . (Reuters) 
 2023 Afghanistan cold snap 
 The death toll from two weeks of cold is 124 people and about 70,000 livestock, according to the government, the majority of whom lived in rural areas . (BBC News) 
 Tornado outbreak of January 24 25, 2023 
 A tornado outbreak strikes the Gulf Coast of the United States , prompting the National Weather Service to issue a rare tornado emergency for areas east of Houston, Texas . ( The New York Times ) 
 A Cessna 206 with six people on board goes missing in Isabela , Philippines . Rescue operations are being conducted. (Global China Daily) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Three people are killed in a shooting at a Circle K store in Yakima , Washington , United States . The gunman later commits suicide in another location. (KNDO-TV) (CNN) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Corruption in Ukraine 
 Several senior Ukrainian officials, including deputy Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine Kyrylo Tymoshenko , four deputy ministers, and five regional governors, resign as a nationwide anti-corruption campaign is launched in Ukraine . (BBC News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Doomsday Clock 
 The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists announces that the Doomsday Clock has been moved up to 90 seconds before midnight, largely due to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine . (NPR) (CNN) 
 Month January 2023 Previous day January 23 Next day January 25 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_January_24&oldid=1179318342 "