
 
 
 November 4, 2023 ( 2023-11-04 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Mianwali air base attack 
 Nine Tehreek-e-Jihad jihadists are killed during a shootout with soldiers when they tried to storm a training air base in Mianwali , Punjab , Pakistan . (AP) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Operation 1027 
 The Three Brotherhood Alliance captures more junta outposts in their offensive , along with displacing 23,000 people. (AFP via CNA) 
 Tatmadaw forces strike Laiza , Kachin State , with artillery while an errant shell hits a house on the Chinese side of the border , killing one Chinese civilian and injuring three others. (Asia Times) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Crimea attacks 
 Ukrainian forces strike Zalyv Shipbuilding yard in the Russian-occupied Kerch , Crimea , with cruise missiles , damaging the Russian corvette Askold [ ru ] . (Reuters) 
 War in Sudan 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 At least 15 people are killed in Khartoum during shelling between the Sudanese Army and the Rapid Support Forces . (AFP via TOI ) 
 Darfur campaign 
 Battle of Geneina 
 The Rapid Support Forces capture Geneina , capital of West Darfur , after seizing control of the headquarters of the Sudanese military's 15th Infantry Division in the city. ( Sudan Tribune ) 
 Guinean commando forces forcefully remove former president Moussa Dadis Camara and several other officials from a central prison in Conakry amid gunfire. Camara is later taken back into police custody shortly after the alleged kidnapping attempt. (AFP via Daily Monitor ) (AP) 
 Disasters and incidents 
 
 A bus crashes into a building in Seattle , Washington , United States, killing one person and injuring 12 others. (ABC) 
 International relations 
 
 International reactions to the Israel Hamas war , Israel Turkey relations 
 Turkey recalls its ambassador to Israel in response to Israel's military actions in the Gaza Strip . (Forbes) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Israel Hamas war protests in the United States 
 Tens of thousands of pro- Palestinian protesters march in Washington, D.C. , United States, demanding a ceasefire . ( The Guardian ) 
 2023 Zimbabwean by-elections 
 The Supreme Court of Zimbabwe upholds a decision that disqualifies 14 opposition legislators, after rejecting claims of misrepresentation by an individual alleged to be an opposition official. This decision potentially allows the ruling ZANU PF party to achieve a constitution - amending parliamentary majority in the upcoming by-elections . (AFP via The Manila Times ) 
 2024 Ghanaian general election 
 Vice-President Mahamudu Bawumia is nominated by the country 's ruling New Patriotic Party as their presidential candidate. (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 Copa Libertadores 
 In association football , Brazilian club Fluminense win their first Copa Libertadores title after defeating Argentine side Boca Juniors 2 1 after extra time in the final . (Reuters) 
 Month November 2023 Previous day November 3 Next day November 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_November_4&oldid=1273740567 "