
 
 
 January 9, 2024 ( 2024-01-09 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Red Sea crisis 
 Operation Prosperity Guardian 
 U.S. Navy and Royal Navy warships in the Red Sea shoot down 21 suicide drones and missiles launched by Houthi forces in Yemen . British Defence Secretary Grant Shapps describes it as the largest attack in the area by the Houthis to date. (Reuters) 
 2024 conflict in Ecuador 
 President of Ecuador Daniel Noboa declares a state of emergency following the escape of Jos Adolfo Mac as Villamar , leader of the Los Choneros drug cartel, from prison. Gangsters subsequently storm a TC Televisi n newsroom in Guayaquil and launch a series of riots, kidnappings, and explosions across the country. Eight civilians are killed, including two at Centro Comercial Alb n Borja , and three more injured during random shootings in Guayaquil, while two police officers are killed in Nobol . As a result, schools are closed and the military is called to stop gang activities. (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Three Hezbollah militants and Ali Hussein Barji , the commander of Hezbollah's air force at al-Tawil's funeral in Khirbet Selm , southern Lebanon is assassinated by an Israeli strike although Hezbollah denies this claim. ( The Guardian ) (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 South Korea bans the breeding and slaughter of dogs for consumption , effective in 2027. (CNN) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Federal prosecution of Donald Trump 
 A panel of three federal appellate judges for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit hears oral arguments regarding the issue of presidential immunity for former US president Donald Trump . (CNN) 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 Russia places exiled tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky on a wanted list over comments he made regarding the ongoing war. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 24 Bhutanese National Assembly election 
 Bhutanese people vote in the second round of the election for 47 members of the National Assembly. (Reuters) 
 Gabriel Attal becomes the youngest and first openly gay Prime Minister of France . (BBC News) 
 Month January 2024 Previous day January 8 Next day January 10 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_January_9&oldid=1239545182 "