
 
 
 June 9, 2024 ( 2024-06-09 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir 
 2024 Reasi attack 
 Nine people are killed and 41 others are injured near Reasi , Jammu and Kashmir , India , when a bus carrying Hindu pilgrims falls into a ravine after being shot at. (Al Jazeera) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 2024 Lakki Marwat bombing 
 An IED kills seven Pakistan Army personnel in Lakki Marwat District , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (Reuters) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Two people are killed in Israeli airstrikes near Aitaroun , Lebanon , according to the National News Agency . (Al Jazeera) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 President Bernardo Ar valo announced that the remains of Guatemalan writer and 1967 Nobel Prize winner for Literature, Miguel ngel Asturias , would be repatriated to Guatemala. Asturias is buried in the P re Lachaise Cemetery in Paris , France . (DW) 
 International relations 
 
 North Korea South Korea relations 
 South Korea announces that it will resume loudspeaker broadcasts over the Korean Demilitarized Zone for the first time since 2018 in response to North Korea sending hundreds of balloons carrying garbage across the border. (BBC News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Cannabis in Slovenia 
 Slovenian voters approve the use of cannabis for medicinal and recreational use in adults. (STA) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Israeli war cabinet 
 War Cabinet Minister Benny Gantz resigns after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu failed to present a post-war plan for Gaza by Gantz's previously announced June 8 deadline. Minister Gadi Eisenkot also resigns. (BBC News) 
 2024 Belgian federal election 
 Belgians vote for the 150 members of the Chamber of Representatives as well as for regional representatives and members of the European Parliament . ( The Guardian ) 
 June 2024 Bulgarian parliamentary election 
 Bulgarians vote for the sixth time in three years to elect the 240 members of the parliament . (DW) 
 2024 European Parliament election 
 The last day of the European Parliament elections takes place, with voting occurring in 20 countries. (AP) 
 2024 French legislative election 
 Following major losses for French President Emmanuel Macron 's Renaissance party in the European Parliament elections , Macron dissolves the National Assembly and calls snap elections for June 30 and July 7. (Reuters) 
 2024 Indian general election 
 Narendra Modi is sworn in for his third term as Prime Minister of India . (Al Jazeera) 
 2024 Mexican general election 
 Mexico 's ruling party Morena and its coalition allies win a supermajority in the Chamber of Deputies but not in the Senate , falling short of the two-thirds majority needed to change the Constitution . (Reuters) 
 2024 San Marino general election 
 Sammarinese elect the members of the Grand and General Council . (Libertas) 
 2024 South Ossetian parliamentary election 
 Parliamentary elections are held in the Georgian breakaway region of South Ossetia . (Anadolu Ajansi) 
 2024 Swiss referendums 
 Voters in Switzerland reject limits on healthcare spending and an initiative against compulsory vaccination, while approving the initiative of a new law on electricity. (Swissinfo) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 French Open 
 In tennis , Carlos Alcaraz wins the Men's singles title at the French Open after defeating Alexander Zverev in the final, earning his third Grand Slam title. (AP) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 8 Next day June 10 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_9&oldid=1240242869 "