
 
 
 July 14, 2024 ( 2024-07-14 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Siege of Gaza City 
 At least 17 Palestinians are killed and 80 others are injured in an Israeli airstrike on a UNWRA -run school used to shelter displaced people in the Nuseirat refugee camp in Gaza City . The IDF claims that a Hamas command center was there. (Reuters) ( The Guardian ) ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern Ukraine campaign 
 Russia takes control of Urozhaine in Donetsk Oblast , which Ukraine had previously recaptured in July 2023. (Reuters) 
 Somali civil war 
 Top Coffee bombing 
 Nine people are killed and 20 others are injured when a car bomb explodes outside a cafe in Mogadishu , Somalia , while customers were watching the Euro 2024 final . (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Three Italian hikers are killed during accidents on the Mont Blanc . (Bologna Today) 
 International relations 
 
 China Russia relations 
 The Russian Navy and China 's People's Liberation Army Navy begin joint military drills in Zhanjiang , Guangdong , China . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Attempted assassination of Donald Trump 
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation identifies Thomas Matthew Crooks as the "subject involved" in yesterday's attempted assassination of former U.S. President Donald Trump in Butler , Pennsylvania , United States . (Reuters) 
 Two people are killed and two others are injured in a mass shooting at a home in Lautlingen , Baden-W rttemberg , Germany . The shooter later commits suicide . (Reuters) 
 Twenty-seven people, including Colombian Football Federation president Ram n Jesur n , are arrested and 55 are ejected following crowd control issues at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami Gardens , Florida , U.S., before the Copa Am rica final , where fans breached security gates at the stadium's entrance. ( The Independent ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Palestinians in several cities in the occupied West Bank enact a general strike in protest against a recent Israeli strike on Gaza that killed 90 people and injured 300 more. (Al Jazeera) 
 KP Sharma Oli is named as the new Prime Minister of Nepal in his fourth term in office, with his communist party forming a coalition with the Nepali Congress party. (Al Jazeera) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 Wimbledon Championships 
 In tennis , defending champion Carlos Alcaraz defeats Novak Djokovic 6 2, 6 2, 7 6 (7 4) in the Men's singles final to win his second Wimbledon title and his fourth overall Grand Slam title. ( The Guardian ) (Wimbledon) 
 UEFA Euro 2024 
 In association football , Spain defeat England 2 1 in the final match to win their fourth UEFA European Championship title, having previously won in 1964 , 2008 , and 2012 , the most by any team. (Al Jazeera) 
 Month July 2024 Previous day July 13 Next day July 15 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_July_14&oldid=1272849493 "