
 
 
 August 2, 2024 ( 2024-08-02 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Somali civil war 
 2024 Lido Beach attack 
 Thirty-eight people are killed and 212 others are injured in a mass shooting and suicide bombing by al-Shabaab militants near the Beach View Hotel on Lido Beach in Mogadishu , Somalia . (Hiiraan Online) (Reuters) 
 Iran Israel proxy conflict 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Five Syrian migrant workers are killed in IDF airstrikes and shelling of Hezbollah targets in southern Lebanon . (Al Jazeera) 
 Assassination of Ismail Haniyeh 
 United States President Joe Biden deploys multiple U.S. military warships , troops, and other military assets to the Middle East to support Israel against potential attacks from Iran and its proxies . ( Financial Times ) ( The Washington Post ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Unemployment in the United States 
 Several global financial markets fall significantly, with the Dow Jones falling by 610 points after the United States Department of Labor reported that the unemployment rate increased to 4.3% in July, the highest since October 2021. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 At least 11 people are killed in a fire in a residential - commercial building in Manila , Philippines . ( The Star ) 
 International relations 
 
 2024 Venezuelan presidential election , Argentina Venezuela relations 
 Argentina recognizes Edmundo Gonz lez as President-elect of Venezuela , becoming the third country to do so after the United States and Peru . (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 United Kingdom riots 
 Rioting occurs in Sunderland , England , United Kingdom , as hundreds of far-right protesters attempt to march on a mosque and clash with riot police in the city centre. A police station and Citizens Advice bureau is set on fire by rioters. (BBC News) 
 Censorship in Turkey 
 Turkey blocks internet access to Instagram , following comments made by Turkish communications director Fahrettin Altun that condemned Meta Platforms for taking down Instagram posts offering condolences or expressing sorrow towards the assassination of Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh . (Reuters) 
 Mass surveillance in the United Kingdom 
 Several civil rights groups denounce proposals made by British Prime Minister Keir Starmer to grant British police nationalized live facial recognition technology and surveillance to charge people police consider significantly likely to participate in far-right riots, condemning the opportunism of the proposals, their potential racial and gender inaccuracy, and their possible use to target future legal protests. ( The Guardian ) 
 A man is arrested by national police in Dublin , Ireland , following attacks on Government Buildings , The Custom House , and ras an Uachtar in . (RT ) 
 Four men, including a police officer, are found shot to death near Canc n , Quintana Roo , Mexico . (AP) 
 The United States Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission file a joint lawsuit against TikTok and its parent company ByteDance for violating a law prohibiting companies to collect and use personal information of children under the age of 13. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 End Bad Governance protests 
 Protests against President Bola Tinubu 's economic reforms continue across Nigeria , as security forces fire tear gas at protestors and the government orders curfews across several northern states. (Al Jazeera) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 Summer Olympics 
 Tennis at the 2024 Summer Olympics 
 Novak Djokovic defeats Lorenzo Musetti to advance to the finals of the Men's singles tournament , becoming the only player to reach the finals four times, and the oldest finalist in Olympic tennis history . (ESPN) 
 Carlos Alcaraz defeats F lix Auger-Aliassime to advance to the finals of the Men's singles tournament, becoming the youngest finalist in Olympic tennis history at 21 years old. (CBS News) 
 Individual Neutral Athletes at the 2024 Summer Olympics 
 Belarusian gymnast Ivan Litvinovich wins a gold medal in trampoline gymnastics , making him the first male neutral athlete to win a gold medal at the Summer Olympics . (CBS News) 
 Month August 2024 Previous day August 1 Next day August 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_August_2&oldid=1270692376 "