
 
 
 June 9, 2025 ( 2025-06-09 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 2025 Gaza Strip aid distribution incidents 
 According to the Gaza Health Ministry , fourteen Palestinians are killed and 150 others are injured by Israeli gunfire at an aid distribution site near Rafah , Gaza . The total death toll from shootings at aid distribution sites increases to 136 with hundreds others wounded. (AP) (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Gerik bus crash 
 Fifteen people are killed and 33 others are injured in a traffic collision when a bus carrying students loses control and crashes into the back of a minivan on the East West Highway near Gerik , Perak , Malaysia . (France 24) 
 Five people are killed, including an on duty railway police constable, and seven others are injured when passengers get thrown off two overcrowded local trains at the Mumbra railway station near Mumbra in Thane, Maharashtra , India . ( The Indian Express ) 
 The Indian Coast Guard rescues 18 crew members from a Singaporean -flagged container ship after it catches fire following an explosion 144 km (89 mi) off the coast of Kerala , India. Search operations are underway for the missing four crew members. (DW) 
 International relations 
 
 Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip 
 The Israeli Navy seizes the June 2025 Gaza Freedom Flotilla 's flagship vessel, the United Kingdom -flagged Madleen , and takes its occupants (including Swedish activist Greta Thunberg and MEP Rima Hassan ) to Israel . The ship was carrying humanitarian aid en route to Gaza . (CNN) ( The Guardian ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 June 2025 Los Angeles protests 
 U.S. president Donald Trump orders the deployment of roughly 500 Marines to Los Angeles to protect federal buildings amid the ongoing riots in Los Angeles , California. ( The Wall Street Journal ) 
 The U.S. state of California sues the Donald Trump administration for deploying the National Guard to Los Angeles . (CBS News) 
 A police car and multiple properties are damaged in Ballymena , Northern Ireland , amid disorder which broke out following an alleged sexual assault. (BBC News) 
 A court in Prague , Czech Republic, sentences a Colombian national to eight years in prison over a 2024 arson attack on public buses and for planning another similar attack. (AP) 
 The U.S. Treasury Department imposes sanctions on Iv n Archivaldo Guzm n Salazar and his brother Jes s Alfredo Guzm n Salazar , El Chapo 's sons who are believed to be in Mexico and leading factions of the Sinaloa Cartel . (AP) 
 Month June 2025 Previous day June 8 Next day June 10 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_June_9&oldid=1294877881 "