
 
 
 June 17, 2024 ( 2024-06-17 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 United States support for Israel in the Israel Hamas war 
 Two congressional Democrats agree to sign a $18 billion weapon package for Israel including 50 F-15 Eagle fighter jets after initially delaying proceedings, following heavy pressure from the Biden Administration . (Reuters) 
 Eight Palestinians are killed by Israeli fire while waiting for commercial trucks in Gaza . (Reuters) 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 Hezbollah commander Muhammad Ahmed Ayoub is allegedly killed in an Israeli airstrike in Selaa , Lebanon , with further strikes occurring against Hezbollah targets across southern Lebanon. ( Jerusalem Post ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Russian botulism outbreak 
 At least 139 people suffer from botulism in Russia believed to be caused by eating ready-made salads , leading to a nationwide recall of the salads. (AP) 
 2024 West Bengal train collision 
 Eleven people are killed and sixty others are injured when a cargo train collides with a Kanchanjungha Express passenger train in Darjeeling district , West Bengal , India . (Al Jazeera) 
 At least ten people are killed after two boats carrying migrants shipwreck off the southern coast of Italy , with 64 additional people reported missing. (AP) 
 Egypt 's Tourism Hajj Mission announces that at least eight Egyptian pilgrims have died during the Hajj in Saudi Arabia . (Ahram) 
 Seven people are killed amid heavy rains across El Salvador . (AP) 
 Six people, including three children, are killed in a house fire in Newnan , Georgia , United States , and five others are hospitalized. (ABC News) 
 A person is killed and eight others are injured during an ammunition explosion at a military training area in Libav , Czech Republic . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Belgium France relations 
 France and Belgium announce they are strengthening their cooperation in land defence. (Reuters) 
 Germany Poland relations 
 Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk orders Germany to explain a recorded incident where German police appear to desert a migrant family in Osin w Dolny , Poland , just east of the Germany Poland border . ( Barron's ) 
 North Korea Russia relations 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin announces that he will visit North Korea this week, the first state visit by a Russian President in 24 years. (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Cannabis in Maryland 
 In the United States, Maryland Governor Wes Moore pardons more than 175,000 people with low-level marijuana convictions. (Reuters) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Israeli war cabinet 
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announces the dissolution of the war cabinet after Minister Benny Gantz of the Resilience Party left the cabinet. (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 NBA Finals 
 In basketball , the Boston Celtics defeat the Dallas Mavericks in five games in the NBA Finals , winning their 18th overall NBA championship . The Celtics surpass the Los Angeles Lakers to become the team with the most NBA championships . (NBC News) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 16 Next day June 18 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_17&oldid=1234372998 "