
 
 
 February 6, 2023 ( 2023-02-06 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Somali Civil War 
 Puntland Somaliland dispute 
 At least 34 people are killed and 40 others are injured during clashes between Somalilander soldiers and anti- government fighters in Laascaanood , Sool , Somaliland . (Reuters) 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Five Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades members are killed, three others are injured, and eight members are arrested during a raid by Israeli soldiers and subsequent gunbattle at a refugee camp near Jericho , in the West Bank . (BBC News) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Major Archbishop Sviatoslav Shevchuk of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church announces that the church will begin using the Gregorian calendar on September 1 for all but moveable feasts , following a decision by the Synod of Bishops. (UGCC) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Turkey Syria earthquake 
 At least 59,000 people are killed in Turkey and Syria as a magnitude 7.8 earthquake strikes Gaziantep Province , Turkey. (BBC News) 
 A second earthquake of magnitude 7.5 occurs in Kahramanmara , Turkey , nine hours after the first earthquake. (Bloomberg) 
 2023 Coulson Aviation crash 
 A Boeing 737-300 firefighting tanker crashes in Fitzgerald River National Park in Western Australia . Both pilots survive. (7 News) 
 Landslides triggered by heavy rains causes mudslides across villages in the Caman Province , Peru , killing 36 people. (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Hong Kong national security law 
 The trial of 47 pro-democracy activists begins, two years after their arrest. It is the largest trial yet held under the Hong Kong national security law . (DW) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Censorship of Wikipedia , Internet censorship in Pakistan 
 Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif orders the ban on Wikipedia to be lifted, three days after the website was banned for alleged anti-Muslim and blasphemous content. (ProPakistani) 
 Month February 2023 Previous day February 5 Next day February 7 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_February_6&oldid=1219269118 "