
 
 
 April 21, 2023 ( 2023-04-21 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 War in Sudan (2023) 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Indonesia evacuates 43 of its citizens to its embassy in Khartoum after an Indonesian citizen is injured by a bullet. (Jakarta Globe) 
 The Belgian head of the EU humanitarian mission to Sudan , Wim Fransen, is shot in Khartoum. ( The Telegraph ) 
 Evacuation of foreign nationals during the War in Sudan (2023) 
 Many countries, including South Korea , Spain , Sweden , and Switzerland , announce plans to evacuate all of their citizens or nationals from Sudan. (CNN) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War , Latvia Ukraine relations 
 Latvian Defence Minister In ra M rniece announces that Latvia will send all of its FIM-92 Stinger missile systems to Ukraine , following a meeting with NATO allies at Ramstein Air Base in Germany . (Yahoo! News) 
 Nigerian bandit conflict 
 Seven people are killed after an attack in Imo State , Nigeria . (Reuters) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Anglican realignment 
 Leaders of the Global Fellowship of Confessing Anglicans , a communion of conservative Anglican churches representing approximately 85% of the global Anglican population, reject the leadership of Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby as the head of global Anglicanism over his stance on same-sex marriage . (ChurchTimes) 
 Wreckage of the Imperial Japanese Navy ship SS Montevideo Maru , sunk during World War II, is found after 81 years in the South China Sea , off the coast of Luzon Island . The ship, which was carrying over 1,000 prisoners of war, including 850 Australian POWs, represented the largest loss of life for the Australian armed forces during the Second World War. (CNN) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Twitter drops the "state-affiliated" and "government-funded" labels used for the accounts of media organizations. (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Eight people are killed and 128 others are injured after a rare and large tornado strikes two villages near Naypitaw , Myanmar . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 A court in Macau sentences Levo Chan Weng-lin, the former chair of the city's second largest casino VIP room operator, to 14 years in prison for illegal gambling and criminal association. (SCMP) 
 1980 Paris synagogue bombing 
 A court in Paris , France , sentences Lebanese Canadian lecturer and professor Hassan Diab to life in prison over the bombing of a Parisian synagogue in 1980. Diab was tried in absentia and he remains in Canada under the request of arrest and extradition from French authorities. ( The Guardian ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 UK Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Secretary Dominic Raab resigns from both positions following investigations into claims of him bullying staff members. Oliver Dowden and Alex Chalk are selected to replace him as Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Secretary respectively. (Al Jazeera) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 20 Next day April 22 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_21&oldid=1219941106 "