
 
 
 October 8, 2023 ( 2023-10-08 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Battle of Sderot 
 Hamas forces and the IDF clash for a second day in Sderot . (VOA) 
 International reactions to the Israel Hamas war , Israel Hamas war protests 
 Pro- Israel and pro- Palestine rallies occur in several American cities, including Atlanta , Chicago and New York . (AP) 
 Re'im music festival massacre 
 More than 260 bodies are found in Re'im , Southern Israel , after Hamas attacked a trance music festival . Foreign nationals are among those killed in the massacre . (BBC News) 
 Israel's Security Cabinet says that it has approved a military operation against Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip . (Times of Israel) 
 The death toll in the Gaza Strip increases to 370 with more than 2,200 injured. The death toll in Israel increases to more than 750 with over 2,000 injured. Hamas says they hold 130 Israeli captives. (i24 News) (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Israeli ambassador to the United States Michael Herzog says that Americans have been taken hostage by Hamas in Gaza. (Politico) 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict (2023 present) 
 Hezbollah forces in southern Lebanon open fire on Israeli positions in Shebaa Farms with artillery and guided rockets . Israel responds with airstrikes on Hezbollah artillery positions. (Al Jazeera) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Swaminarayan Akshardham , the world's second largest Hindu temple , is officially inaugurated and opened in Robbinsville , New Jersey . (NDTV) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Aftermath of the 2023 Hawaii wildfires 
 The western area of Maui , Hawaii , U.S. , located north of Kaanapali , reopens for tourism two months after wildfires damaged the area. (CNN) 
 At least 27 people are killed and 50 more injured during landslides caused by heavy rains in Yaound , Cameroon . (Africanews) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Ecuadorian security crisis 
 The Ecuadorian government extends the country 's state of emergency by a month. (AFP via The Manila Times ) 
 An Egyptian policeman kills two Israeli tourists and an Egyptian tour guide and injures a third Israeli in Alexandria , Egypt . The gunman is later arrested. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Argentine general election 
 The second part of the presidential debates is held. (Mercopress) 
 2023 Luxembourg general election 
 Luxembourg goes to the polls to elect the Chamber of Deputies . (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 Chicago Marathon 
 Kelvin Kiptum sets a new marathon world record at the Chicago Marathon , becoming the first runner to break 2 hours and 1 minute. (World Athletics) (NPR) 
 Month October 2023 Previous day October 7 Next day October 9 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_October_8&oldid=1284047530 "