
 
 
 February 26, 2024 ( 2024-02-26 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2024 Iran Israel conflict , Israel Hezbollah clashes 
 After Hezbollah shoots down a Hermes 450 drone, Israel conducts airstrikes on Hezbollah positions in Lebanon 's Beqaa Valley , marking Israel's deepest incursion into Lebanon since the outbreak of hostilities. (Reuters) 
 RED-Tabara militants launch an attack in Buringa, Bubanza Province , Burundi , killing nine people and injuring five others. The local headquarters of the ruling CNDD FDD party is also set on fire. (Actualite) 
 International relations 
 
 Iran Israel relations 
 The Israeli Air Force announces the establishment of a new department dedicated to monitoring the Iranian Armed Forces . ( Jerusalem Post ) 
 Libya Sudan relations 
 Sudanese military ruler Abdel Fattah al-Burhan meets with Libyan Government of National Unity prime minister Abdul Hamid Dbeibeh in Tripoli , Libya, to request help in the war in Sudan due to the involvement of Libyan mercenaries. (Sudan War Monitor) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Presumed illegal loggers kill three forest rangers in the foothills of the Iztaccihuatl volcano in the Mexican state of Puebla . (AP) ( El Sol de Puebla ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Tuvaluan general election 
 Feleti Teo is elected unopposed as the new Prime Minister of Tuvalu . Incumbent prime minister Kausea Natano lost his bid for re-election during January's general election. (RNZ) (Reuters) 
 Enlargement of NATO , Sweden NATO relations 
 The Hungarian parliament approves Sweden 's accession into NATO . (BBC News) 
 2024 Hungarian presidential election 
 The National Assembly selects Tam s Sulyok as the next President of Hungary . (Reuters) 
 Prime Minister of Palestine Mohammad Shtayyeh and the entirety of his government resign from office, amid public unpopularity and pressure from the United States government to reform during the Israel Hamas war . (CNN) 
 Month February 2024 Previous day February 25 Next day February 27 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_February_26&oldid=1239533453 "