
 
 
 November 26, 2024 ( 2024-11-26 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 2024 Israel Lebanon ceasefire agreement 
 The Security Cabinet of Israel agrees to a 60-day ceasefire in Lebanon . (CNN) ( The Times of Israel ) 
 U.S President Joe Biden announces that the ceasefire has been accepted. (CNBC) 
 For the first time since the start of the conflict, the Israeli military issues evacuation orders for central Beirut , warning residents of four neighbourhoods to leave as soon as possible. ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Airstrikes are carried out by the Israeli Air Force across several areas of Beirut , Lebanon, hitting at least 20 locations and resulting in several casualties. ( Euronews ) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Eastern front of the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Battle of Kurakhove 
 Russian forces enter the city of Kurakhove in Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine , with heavy fighting reportedly underway. (Al Arabiya) 
 Somali Civil War 
 Puntland Somaliland dispute 
 Las Anod conflict 
 Somaliland imposes a curfew following a clash between soldiers and civilians that resulted in nine deaths and many injuries in Erigavo , Sanaag , Somaliland. ( Idil News ) (Hiiraan Online) (Horseed Media) 
 Arrest of Imran Khan 
 Six people, including four paramilitary soldiers, are killed in clashes between security forces and supporters of former Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan in Islamabad . The protesters, led by Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party, are calling for Khan's immediate release from prison. (Reuters) 
 Unidentified gunmen ambush a group of motorcycle taxis returning from a religious ceremony in Bria , Haute-Kotto , Central African Republic , killing 10 people. (AP) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 present United Kingdom cost-of-living crisis 
 Multinational car manufacturing company Stellantis announces that it will close its van -production factory in Luton , England , putting 1,100 jobs at risk, citing the UK 's economic conditions and the government's zero-emission vehicle (ZEV) mandate as reasons for its closure. ( The Guardian ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Red Sea tourist boat disaster 
 Four people are found dead and five others are rescued from a tourist boat that sank yesterday off the coast of Marsa Alam , Red Sea Governorate , Egypt . Seven others are still missing. ( The Guardian ) 
 Winter of 2024 25 in the Gaza Strip 
 A winter storm floods refugee camps across the Gaza Strip , leading to several thousands of shelters being damaged or destroyed, and worsening refugee exposure to cold and illness. (Reuters) 
 Five people are killed and 20 others are reported missing when a motorboat capsizes in Warri , Delta State , Nigeria . (Reuters) 
 Five people are killed and another is in critical condition when a Cessna 206 Stationair aircraft crashes into the Pico Blanco mountain near San Jos , Costa Rica . (DW) ( The Tico Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Censorship in Iraq 
 The Iraqi Ministry of Communications blocks access to the IMDb website, citing concerns of "immoral content". (Intellinews) (Shafaq News) 
 LGBT rights in Hong Kong 
 Chief justice Andrew Cheung of the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal rules to uphold housing and inheritance rights for same-sex couples in the city. (Al Jazeera) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 The Bangladesh Police fire tear gas at more than 2,000 Hindus protesting in Chittagong , Bangladesh , against the arrest of Chinmoy Krishna Das , a Hindu leader and ISKCON monk, on sedition charges. One is killed, and 27 are injured. ( Hindustan Times ) (Al Jazeera) ( The Times of India ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Japanese space program 
 JAXA aborts an Epsilon S engine test after a fire occurs at the Tanegashima Space Center in Kagoshima Prefecture , Japan . (DW) (CNA) 
 Social media platform Bluesky says it will comply with rules set by the European Union after being accused of violating digital regulations under the Digital Services Act . ( Luxemburg Times ) ( Bloomberg ) 
 Month November 2024 Previous day November 25 Next day November 27 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_November_26&oldid=1260055430 "