
 
 
 December 21, 2024 ( 2024-12-21 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks in Russia during the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 At least seven Ukrainian drones strike Kazan , Russia , six of which reportedly hit residential areas, including a 32-story apartment building . ( Ukrainska Pravda ) (Reuters) 
 Haitian crisis 
 The Haitian government declares a one-month state of emergency amid the escalating gang violence and the deepening security crisis. ( Caribbean National Weekly ) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Sixteen Pakistan Army soldiers are killed and five others are critically injured when Pakistani Taliban militants launch an overnight raid on an army post in Makeen , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . (Al Arabiya) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 Sixteen people are injured in a Houthi missile attack on the Tel Aviv - Jaffa area in Israel . (CNN) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Constitutional crisis in Somalia 
 The Puntland region of Somalia announces that it will introduce a new regional currency in 2025. The region had previously shifted to use of the United States dollar in 2021, due to severe inflation of the Somali shilling . (Garowe Online) (Hiiraan Online) (Horseed Media) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Minas Gerais road crash 
 Forty-one people are killed and seven more are injured when a bus collides with a granite block that fell from a truck on a highway in Minas Gerais , Brazil . ( The Guardian ) (G1) ( O Globo ) 
 Ten people are killed and many others are injured in a stampede during a distribution of food and clothes at a church in Abuja , Nigeria . (AP) 
 Nine people are killed and 13 more injured when a bus plunges into a ravine in Pa Alam , Lorestan , Iran . (AP) 
 Two people are killed and three others are missing when an under-construction six-story building collapses in Sohana village , Mohali district , India . (Zee News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Censorship of TikTok 
 The Albanian government announces a one-year ban on the social media platform TikTok beginning in 2025, following a fatal stabbing of a teenager in November in connection to a confrontation on the platform. (Al Jazeera) (T rkiye Today) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Icelandic parliamentary election 
 The Social Democratic Alliance , led by Kristr n Frostad ttir , forms a coalition government in Iceland 's Althing with the Liberal Reform Party and the People's Party . Frostad ttir becomes Iceland's youngest prime minister at 36 years old. (CNA) 
 2025 United States federal budget , Government shutdowns in the United States 
 The United States Senate passes a funding bill, with President Joe Biden subsequently signing the bill into law, thereby averting a government shutdown. (CBS News) 
 Month December 2024 Previous day December 20 Next day December 22 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_December_21&oldid=1271614672 "