
 
 
 March 2, 2025 ( 2025-03-02 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 2025 Gaza war ceasefire 
 Israel agrees to a United States -led plan to extend the first phase of the ceasefire through Ramadan and Passover , during which half of the 59 remaining hostages will be released. Hamas rejects the proposal, insisting that the deal proceed with phase two, which includes the release of all remaining living hostages, a full withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza and a permanent end to the war. ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 97th Academy Awards 
 The 97th Academy Awards take place at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles , United States . Anora wins the most awards, taking five, including Best Picture and Best Actress for Mikey Madison . Adrien Brody wins Best Actor for The Brutalist . (Reuters) 
 Anora director Sean Baker becomes the first person to win four Academy Awards (Best Picture, Best Director , Best Original Screenplay , and Best Film Editing ) for a single film, also tying Walt Disney 's record for most Academy Awards won in a single ceremony . ( The Independent ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Southeastern United States wildfires 
 Several wildfires erupt across South Carolina and North Carolina , United States , resulting in the evacuation of endangered towns, including several in the Myrtle Beach area. South Carolina governor Henry McMaster declares a state of emergency in response. ( The New York Times ) (NBC) 
 International relations 
 
 Peace negotiations in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Coalition of the willing (Russo-Ukrainian War) 
 United Kingdom prime minister Keir Starmer announces after a meeting of European Union leaders in London that a " coalition of the willing " is working on a Ukraine peace plan that they will present to U.S. president Donald Trump . (Sky News) 
 Russia United States relations 
 United States Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth orders a halt to offensive cyber operations and information operations against Russia by U.S. Cyber Command . (NBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2025 Abkhazian presidential election 
 Acting leader of Abkhazia Badra Gunba is elected President with 55% of the votes. Georgia rejects the election, as it claims Abkhazia as part of its territory . (Reuters) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Firefly Aerospace successfully lands the Blue Ghost Mission 1 on the Moon as part of NASA 's Commercial Lunar Payload Services program, delivering payloads to Mare Crisium with instruments to study lunar regoliths and the interactions between solar wind and Earth 's magnetic field . (Space.com) (NASA) 
 Month March 2025 Previous day March 1 Next day March 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_March_2&oldid=1278754073 "