
 
 
 July 14, 2023 ( 2023-07-14 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Jihadist insurgency in Niger 
 Five people are killed and 19 more injured during an ambush by gunmen at a convoy in the Tillab ri Region , Niger . Two attackers are killed in the ensuing shootout . (VOA) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 2023 Hollywood labor disputes 
 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike 
 Universal announces that the upcoming red carpet premiere for the Oppenheimer film has been cancelled amidst the SAG-AFTRA strikes. The film is still expected to be screened. ( Screen International ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Foxconn , a tech giant headquartered in Taiwan, announces that it has made a deal with Karnataka , a state in India , to buy 300 acres of land for a new iPhone factory. ( Economic Times ) 
 International relations 
 
 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
 Armenia Azerbaijan border crisis 
 Azerbaijan 's State Border Service reopens the Lachin corridor to allow the Red Cross to conduct medical evacuations from Nagorno-Karabakh to Armenia amid protests over the corridor's closure on July 11 and humanitarian concerns. (AFP via France 24) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Gilgo Beach serial killings 
 A suspect in the Long Island serial murders is arrested in Massapequa Park , New York , United States . ( The Independent ) 
 Protests against Quran desecration in Sweden 
 Police authorize a protest involving the burning of the Bible and the Torah outside the Israeli embassy in Stockholm following a series of anti-Islam demonstrations involving Quran desecration across the country . Israeli officials have urged the Swedish government to prevent the act. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Cambodian general election 
 Two members of the opposition Candlelight Party are arrested for allegedly encouraging voters to spoil ballots ahead of the election. (AFP via The Guardian ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Japanese space program 
 An Epsilon S solid-propellant rocket upper stage, an upgraded version of JAXA 's Epsilon launch vehicle, explodes about a minute after ignition during a test in Akita Prefecture . (AFP via CNA) 
 The Indian Space Research Organization launches Chandrayaan-3 on a mission to the Moon . The mission will deploy the Vikram lander and Pragyan rover to study the Moon's surface for two weeks. The mission is similar to the failed Chandrayaan-2 mission, which crashed shortly before landing in 2019. (Space.com) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 Pacific Four Series 
 In women's rugby union , New Zealand win their second consecutive Pacific Four Series title after defeating the United States 39 17 at TD Place Stadium in Ottawa , Ontario , Canada . (BBC Sport) 
 Month July 2023 Previous day July 13 Next day July 15 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_July_14&oldid=1214067358 "