
 
 
 March 10, 2025 ( 2025-03-10 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Syrian civil war 
 Western Syria clashes 
 2025 massacres of Syrian Alawites , March 2025 Western Syria clashes 
 The number of civilians reported by one war monitor to be killed in extrajudicial massacres in western Syria rises to 1,068, the majority of whom are Alawites with some Christians reportedly caught in the violence. (France 24) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The Great Lakes Shipwreck Historical Society announce the discovery of the wreckage of the SS Western Reserve that sank in Lake Superior in 1892, which killed 26 of the 27 people onboard. It was the first steel plate lake freighter to operate on the Great Lakes . (AP) ( The New York Times ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2025 United States trade war with Canada and Mexico 
 Ontario Premier Doug Ford announces that the province will charge 25% more for electricity supplied to the United States , which includes the states of Michigan , Minnesota , and New York . (AP) 
 British Columbia Premier David Eby announces that the province will ban all U.S.-imported alcohol within government-operated liquor stores . (CBC News) 
 Economy of the United States 
 U.S. stocks experience a relatively steep drop as the Nasdaq Composite falls 4% and the S&P 500 falls 2.7%. Economists attribute the drop to recent all-time highs , recession fears, and concerns about a potential U.S. government shutdown and the tariffs imposed by the Trump administration . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 North Sea ship collision 
 An oil tanker is reportedly on fire in the North Sea off the coast of Kingston upon Hull , England , after colliding with a cargo ship . Thirty-seven crew members are rescued by search and rescue boats, with 32 injured and one hospitalized when brought to shore. (BBC News) (DW) 
 Thirty-two people are killed and at least 12 others are injured in two bus crashes in Mexico . ( The Daily Observer ) 
 Three people, including two hospital workers, are killed when a medical transport helicopter crashes in a forested area near Tupelo , Mississippi , United States . ( Irish Star ) 
 International relations 
 
 2025 Organization of American States Secretary General election 
 The Organization of American States elects Albert Ramdin of Suriname to serve as its secretary general for the 2025 2030 period. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Spanish floods 
 A court charges the dismissed Valencian regional minister Salom Pradas [ es ] and the former regional secretary of Emergencies for the management of emergency warnings during the floods that caused 228 deaths in October 2024 in the Valencian Community . ( El Pa s ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Syrian peace process 
 The Syrian transitional government and the Kurdish -led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) sign a ceasefire and a deal to integrate the SDF into state institutions and bring the Rojava region under government control. (Al Jazeera) (France24) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Twitter under Elon Musk 
 X suffers from multiple global system outages , as owner Elon Musk claims that the site is being targeted in a "massive cyberattack ". (AP) 
 Month March 2025 Previous day March 9 Next day March 11 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_March_10&oldid=1293290518 "