
 
 
 July 11, 2022 ( 2022-07-11 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Three civilians are killed and 31 others are injured in a Russian shelling of Kharkiv . The city's mayor says that the latest shelling has targeted civilian infrastructure. (SwissInfo) 
 Russian occupation of Kharkiv Oblast 
 The Russian-appointed military-civilian administration leader of Velykyi Burluk in Kharkiv Oblast , Yevgeny Yunakov, is assassinated in a car bombing . (Reuters) 
 2022 Ukrainian summer counteroffensive 
 Ukrainian Ground Forces recapture the town of Ivanivka in Kherson Oblast after launching a counter-offensive against Russian forces . (Reuters) 
 Colombian conflict 
 The Colombian Army launches an airstrike on a FARC dissidents ' camp in the Caquet Department , killing ten people. Iv n Mordisco, one of the group's leaders, was at the scene during the strike; his fate is unknown. (BBC News) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 New South Wales premier Dominic Perrottet announces that the Australian Aboriginal Flag will be flown permanently above the Sydney Harbour Bridge , which is widely regarded as an iconic Australian landmark. The flag will be flown on top of the bridge's arches alongside the national flag , replacing the flag of New South Wales , after the state government decided against accommodating all three flags. (CNN) 
 Business and economy 
 
 A Russian court lifts the suspension for the CPC pipeline and instead fines its operators 200,000 rubles ($3,300) for oil spills . The oil pipeline , one of the world's largest, is the route for nearly all of Kazakhstan 's oil exports, which represents about 1% of global oil supply . (Reuters) 
 The Nord Stream 1 natural gas pipeline from Russia to Germany is suspended for the first of ten days of scheduled annual maintenance. (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 July 2022 European heat wave 
 French authorities issue a warning as temperatures reach as high as 40 C (104 F) amid ongoing wildfires . (RFI) 
 Two people are killed and four others are injured after a three car pileup caused by a pack of boars north of Thessaloniki , Greece . (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 COVID-19 pandemic 
 COVID-19 pandemic in the United States 
 COVID-19 vaccination in the United States 
 The Biden administration announces that the United States will purchase 3.2 million doses of the Novavax COVID-19 vaccine once the vaccine is approved. ( The New York Times ) 
 COVID-19 pandemic in Macau 
 Macau closes all of its casinos in order to contain an outbreak of COVID-19 in the city. ( Straits Times ) 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak 
 2022 monkeypox outbreak in the United States 
 New Mexico reports its first case of monkeypox. (KRQE-TV) 
 International relations 
 
 Government and intergovernmental reactions to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Lithuania Russia relations 
 Lithuania expands sanctions on the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad to include cement, concrete, wood, alcohol and alcohol-based industrial chemicals. (Reuters) 
 The 51st Pacific Islands Forum begins in Suva , Fiji , amid escalating geopolitical competition between China and the United States . (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 LGBT rights in Russia 
 Lawmakers in Russia propose to extend the anti-" gay propaganda " bill to all people regardless of their age. (Al Jazeera) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 vote of no confidence in the government of lisabeth Borne 
 The French government survives a no confidence vote tabled by the left-wing NUPES coalition. The no confidence vote received only 146 yes votes out of the 289 needed. ( Le Monde ) 
 Russian president Vladimir Putin signs a decree extending a fast-track process to obtain Russian citizenship to all Ukrainians , which previously only applied to those living in the Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic . (Reuters) 
 Science and technology 
 
 NASA releases the first full-color image taken by the James Webb Space Telescope , showing a segment of a galaxy cluster 4.6 billion light-years away from Earth . ( The Verge ) 
 Month July 2022 Previous day July 10 Next day July 12 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_July_11&oldid=1104184400 "