
 
 
 April 6, 2023 ( 2023-04-06 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 Russia Ukraine peace negotiations 
 Deputy leader Andrii Sybiha says that Ukraine is willing to hold talks on the future of Crimea if a Ukrainian counter-offensive reaches the Crimean administrative border. ( The Guardian ) 
 Iran Israel proxy conflict , Israel Hezbollah conflict , Gaza Israel conflict 
 2023 Israel Lebanon shellings 
 Three Israeli civilians injured by four Hezbollah rockets, which fired off at least 34 rockets in northern Israel with 25 rockets intercepted by the Iron Dome , with a Palestinian child injured by IDF shelling of two Lebanese villages and the Gaza Strip . (MENAFN) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Burkina Faso 
 Kourakou and Tondobi attacks 
 At least 44 people are killed by jihadists in two villages in S no Province , Sahel Region , Burkina Faso . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Canada ice storm 
 Two people are killed and over a million people are without power after an ice storm strikes Ontario and Quebec , Canada . (Reuters) 
 2023 Miyakojima helicopter crash 
 The Japanese Coast Guard reports the crashing of a Black Hawk military helicopter carrying ten crew members near Miyakojima , Okinawa Prefecture . (Reuters) 
 Health and environment 
 
 The Gambia confirms a case of bird flu . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 The International Court of Justice rules that the case of territorial dispute between Venezuela and Guyana over Guayana Esequiba can proceed. Guyanese president Irfaan Ali welcomes the decision and commits Guyana to solve the dispute peacefully. Venezuela had earlier rejected the ruling, alleging that the case cannot be heard without the involvement of the United Kingdom , Guyana's former colonial power. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2023 Tennessee House of Representatives expulsions 
 Two Democratic lawmakers are expelled from the Tennessee House of Representatives for participating in pro- gun control protests following the Covenant School shooting . ( The Washington Post ) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 Women's Finalissima 
 In association football , England defeat Brazil 4 2 on penalties . (UEFA) 
 Month April 2023 Previous day April 5 Next day April 7 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_April_6&oldid=1280408914 "