
 
 
 May 14, 2025 ( 2025-05-14 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israeli Palestinian conflict 
 Gaza war 
 Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip 
 Israeli airstrikes kill at least 80 Palestinians across the Gaza Strip . (Reuters) 
 Palestinian political violence 
 Two Israelis , including a pregnant woman and her child, are critically wounded in a shooting near Brukhin in the West Bank . ( The Jerusalem Post ) (YNet) 
 Hezbollah Israel conflict 
 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 The Israel Defense Forces claim that a drone strike in Qaaqaait al-Jisr , Nabatieh Governorate , Lebanon , killed a Hezbollah commander. ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Naxalite Maoist insurgency 
 Operation Black Forest 
 Indian authorities declare a "major success" in a military operation against Naxal insurgents in the border between the states of Chhattisgarh and Telangana , killing 31 militants, including top leaders of the Maoist group. ( The Hindustan Times ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Two hikers are found dead and seven others are rescued after they were swept away by a river while hiking near Didier Waterfall on the island of Martinique . (AP) 
 Two Japanese Air Force pilots are killed after their Kawasaki T-4 aircraft crashes into a reservoir minutes after taking off from Komaki Air Base in Komaki , Aichi Prefecture , Japan . (AP) (AP 2) 
 International relations 
 
 China Colombia relations 
 Colombia joins China 's Belt and Road Initiative during the China-CELAC Forum in Beijing . (AFP via RFI) 
 Syria United States relations 
 U.S. president Donald Trump meets with Syrian interim president Ahmed al-Sharaa during a trip to Saudi Arabia prior to departing for Qatar , marking the first meeting between a U.S. and Syrian president since 2000. (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Immigration to Argentina 
 Argentine president Javier Milei orders restrictions on immigration to Argentina , saying that immigrants are bringing "chaos and abuse" to Argentina. (AP) 
 Tajik president Emomali Rahmon signs a law decriminalizing the " liking " of posts on social media publicly calling for terrorism or other serious crimes. (Reuters) 
 Russian election observer Grigory Melkonyants [ ru ] is convicted on charges of working with an "undesirable organization" and sentenced to five years in prison. ( The New York Times ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Deportation of undocumented Afghans from Pakistan 
 Pakistani interior minister Mohsin Naqvi says that more than 1 million Afghans have been deported back to Afghanistan since November 2023 as Pakistani authorities intensify a crackdown on illegal immigration . (AMU TV) 
 Month May 2025 Previous day May 13 Next day May 15 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_May_14&oldid=1291660733 "