
 
 
 June 4, 2024 ( 2024-06-04 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War , Russia NATO relations 
 Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov warns that French military instructors will be "legitimate targets" if they are deployed to Ukraine . (France 24) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 The Kanlaon volcano in central Philippines erupts, causing evacuations and a suspension of activities in the city of Canlaon . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Slatina protests 
 A mass protest takes place in Slatina , Olt County , Romania , against the inactions of bystanders in the drowning of Flavius Magraon, as well as the police department's corruption in the case. ( Adev rul ) ( B1 TV ) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 Indian general election 
 The alliance of parties led by Narendra Modi reaches the 272 seats threshold needed to form a government, but Modi's BJP party loses its outright parliamentary majority. (BBC News) 
 2024 Nigerian general strike 
 The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) suspend the nationwide general strike, pending talks with the federal government of Nigeria about the raising of the country's minimum wage. (BBC) (Reuters) 
 International recognition of the State of Palestine 
 Slovenia 's parliament approves a motion to recognize a Palestinian state . ( The Times of Israel ) 
 Mexico United States border crisis 
 US President Joe Biden enacts an executive order to temporarily suspend asylum claims processing at the Mexico United States border when the seven-day average of claims exceeds 2,500 per day. Amnesty International criticizes the executive order, accusing Biden of "setting a dangerous international precedent". (NPR) (AP) 
 North Korea South Korea relations 
 The State Council of South Korea suspends the 2018 Panmunjom Declaration due to border tensions over balloons sent across the border by North Korea . (AP) 
 A local Mannheim politician is injured by a stabbing, five days after the May 31 attack in the German city . (BBC) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Chinese space program 
 The China National Space Administration 's Chang'e 6 spacecraft lifts off from the surface of the far side of the Moon carrying samples of lunar soil and rocks back to Earth . (Reuters) 
 The National Health Service declares a "critical incident" after several hospitals in London , including King's College Hospital , say they have cancelled appointments and turned away patients after a cyberattack on their Synnovis IT systems. (AP) 
 Sports 
 
 2024 Major League Baseball season 
 Venezuelan infielder Tucupita Marcano is permanently banned from Major League Baseball and Minor League Baseball for betting on Pittsburgh Pirates games while being a member of the team. (CBS Sports) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 3 Next day June 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_4&oldid=1227507307 "