
 
 
 May 29, 2023 ( 2023-05-29 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 2023 Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure 
 Russian forces strike Kyiv using Iskander ballistic and cruise missiles , with debris injuring one civilian and damaging infrastructure. Ukraine claims to have shot down all of the missiles. (AP via Los Angeles Times ) 
 Battle of Donbas 
 Russian airstrikes on Toretsk , Donetsk Oblast , target a petrol station and a multi-storey building, killing two people and injuring eight others. (Reuters) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Northwestern Syria clashes 
 Commander-in-chief of the Russian special forces in Syria , Colonel Oleg Pechevisty, is killed by an HTS artillery strike on a military post in Latakia Province . (SOHR) (Enab Baladi) 
 2022 2023 North Kosovo crisis 
 Twenty-five peacekeepers of the NATO -led KFOR are injured after clashes with ethnic Serbs in North Kosovo over the installation of ethnic Albanian mayors. Serbian President Aleksandar Vu i places the Serbian Armed Forces on the highest level of combat alert in response to the clashes. (BBC News) (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 One person is killed and four others are missing after a chartered boat sinks near Sitka , Alaska , United States . (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 United States and the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russia United States relations 
 The Russian Interior Ministry issues an arrest warrant for United States Senator Lindsey Graham over comments Graham made about the Russian invasion of Ukraine . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Capital punishment for homosexuality , Anti-Homosexuality Bill, 2023 
 Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni signs the Anti-Homosexuality Bill into law which introduces the death penalty for "aggravated homosexuality" and a sentence of 20 years in prison for the " promotion of homosexuality ". (Reuters) 
 Nine people are injured after a shooting on a beach in Hollywood , Florida , United States . (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 The Premier of Western Australia , Mark McGowan , unexpectedly announces his intention to resign by the end of the week, citing exhaustion after the COVID-19 pandemic in Western Australia . (ABC) 
 Prime Minister of Spain , Pedro S nchez , calls for snap elections after the defeat of his party in the Local and regional elections . ( El Pa s ) 
 Month May 2023 Previous day May 28 Next day May 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_May_29&oldid=1158136172 "