
 
 
 November 29, 2023 ( 2023-11-29 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2023 Guayana Esequiba crisis , Brazil Venezuela relations 
 The Brazilian Army mobilizes towards the border of Venezuela and Guyana , anticipating a possible Venezuelan military invasion of Guayana Esequiba . (Escenario Mundial) 
 Israel Hamas war 
 Israel Hamas war hostage crisis 
 2023 Israel Hamas ceasefire 
 Hamas releases four Thai migrant workers and 12 Israeli hostages while Israel releases 30 Palestinian prisoners . In a separate gesture to Russian President Vladimir Putin , two dual citizens of Israel and Russia are also freed by Hamas. ( The Times of Israel ) 
 October-November 2023 Jenin incursion 
 Israel Defense Forces , Shin Bet , and Israel Border Police announce in a joint statement that they killed Muhammad Zubeidi, the commander of the Jenin branch of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad . ( The Jerusalem Post ) 
 Two children, aged 14 and 8, are shot dead by IDF troops in Jenin during the raid. The shootings are caught by security cameras. (BBC) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Operation 1027 
 The Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army captures the town of Konkyan in Shan State , Myanmar , after the military 's Light Infantry Battalion 125 surrendered to it. ( The Irrawaddy ) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The 15th-century painting Madonna delle Grazie by Sandro Botticelli , with an estimated value of 100 million, which was believed to be missing, is recovered from a residence near Naples , Italy . ( The Guardian ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 Austria 's largest privately owned real estate company Signa Holding files for insolvency . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Yakushima V-22 Osprey crash [ ja ] 
 A United States Air Force V-22 Osprey crashes off the coast of Japan 's Kagoshima Prefecture with six crew members onboard. A search and rescue operation has been launched, according to the Japan Coast Guard . (CNN) 
 International relations 
 
 Finland Poland relations , Finland Russia relations 
 National Security Bureau chief Jacek Siewiera announces that Poland will send "a team of military advisors " to the Finland Russia border in response to an official request for allied support. Finland says it was unaware of the Polish offer. Russia warns against the move, viewing the concentration of troops on the border as a threat. (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Recognition of same-sex unions in Nepal 
 A village authority in Gandaki Province , Nepal , registers the nation's first same-sex marriage . (Reuters) 
 German authorities launch major raids and arrests against the right-wing Wehrsportgruppe Knockout 51 [ de ] and the Reichsb rger group "K nigreich Deutschland". (Taz) (Zeit) 
 French Minister of Justice ric Dupond-Moretti is acquitted of a charge of conflict of interest by the Cour de Justice de la R publique . (France 24) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Right Livelihood Award 
 Eunice Brookman-Amissah , Mother Nature Cambodia , Phyllis Omido and SOS M diterran e are honored with the Right Livelihood Award in Stockholm , Sweden . (Tagesschau) 
 Solar Cycle 25 
 NASA says that a coronal mass ejection directed at Earth will result in a geomagnetic storm causing disruption to radio and GPS communications on November 30, particularly in the Southern Hemisphere . ( The Times of India ) 
 Sports 
 
 Winter Olympic Games 
 The International Olympic Committee announces that a French Alps / Nice bid is the preferred candidate to host the 2030 Winter Olympics and that Salt Lake City , Utah , United States , is the preferred candidate to host the 2034 Winter Olympics. (CBC News) 
 Month November 2023 Previous day November 28 Next day November 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_November_29&oldid=1197711374 "