
 
 
 May 3, 2023 ( 2023-05-03 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 2022 2023 Western Russia attacks 
 2023 Kremlin drone attack 
 Russia accuses Ukraine of attempting to assassinate President Vladimir Putin after two drones were shot down near the Kremlin . A spokesman claimed that Putin was not inside the Kremlin at the time of the attack. A video shows at least one drone hitting the compound. Ukraine denies any involvement in the attack. (BBC News) 
 2022 2023 Crimea attacks 
 Russia's Federal Security Service says that it has arrested seven Ukrainian agents who were allegedly planning a "series of high-profile sabotage and terrorist acts" in Crimea , including an attack on the Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergey Aksyonov . (Reuters) 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian forces shell Kherson Oblast , killing 16 civilians and injuring 22 others. (Reuters) 
 War in Sudan (2023) 
 Evacuation of foreign nationals during the War in Sudan (2023) 
 Australia 's Royal Australian Air Force evacuates 36 Australians from Sudan , reportedly overnight. ( Sydney Morning Herald ) (ABC News Australia) 
 The South Sudanese foreign ministry announces that a seven-day ceasefire has been agreed to in Sudan, lasting from May 4 to 11. (Firstpost) (Reuters) 
 The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps seize the Panama -flagged oil tanker Niovi in the Strait of Hormuz . (Tasnim News Agency) 
 Business and economy 
 
 The World Bank 's board of governors elects American business executive Ajay Banga as the next President of the World Bank Group . (Reuters) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2023 Africa floods 
 Floods have killed 109 people in Rwanda and six people in Uganda . (Reuters) 
 2023 Emilia-Romagna floods 
 Two people are killed, one is missing and several are displaced during heavy floods in the Emilia-Romagna region, Italy . (AP) 
 Seventeen people are killed and 29 others are injured after a public bus and a truck collide with each other on a highway in New Valley Governorate , Egypt . (Reuters) 
 Eight people are killed after a fire breaks out in a construction container in Brno , Czech Republic . (Reuters) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Vladislav Ribnikar Elementary School shooting 
 A boy kills nine people in a mass shooting at an elementary school in Belgrade , Serbia . (Reuters) 
 2023 Atlanta shooting 
 One person is killed and four others are injured in a mass shooting at a medical facility in Atlanta , Georgia , United States . The suspected shooter is later arrested following an 8-hour manhunt. (AP) 
 Myanmar 's State Administration Council pardons 2,153 political prisoners to mark Vesak Day . (ABC News) (Xinhua) 
 Belarusian activist and blogger Roman Protasevich is sentenced to eight years in prison. (AFP via Barron's ) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Researchers announce the successful extraction of ancient DNA from a 20,000 year old elk-tooth pendant found in Denisova Cave . (Reuters) 
 Month May 2023 Previous day May 2 Next day May 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_May_3&oldid=1293956826 "