
 
 
 September 3, 2023 ( 2023-09-03 ) (Sunday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Syrian civil war 
 Deir ez-Zor clashes (2023) 
 Eighteen fighters of the Turkish -backed Syrian National Army are killed after attempting to break through the front lines in Northeastern Syria . (SOHR) 
 The Syrian Democratic Forces kill and injure eight tribal gunmen who were attempting to cross to Syrian government -held territory. (SOHR) 
 The Syrian Democratic Forces recapture two towns after having lost them in an earlier offensive by tribal fighters . (SOHR) 
 2023 Sudan conflict 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 Five civilians are killed in airstrikes by the Sudanese Armed Forces in Khartoum , a continuation of bombings that killed twenty civilians yesterday. ( The Guardian ) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine , Corruption in Ukraine 
 President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy dismisses Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov amid graft allegations within the Ministry of Defence . The head of the State Property Fund , Rustem Umerov replaces Reznikov. (Reuters) (CNN) 
 Myanmar civil war 
 Five government and security officials are killed and eleven police officers are injured in a bomb attack on a government compound in Myawaddy , Kayin State , Myanmar . (AFP via VOA) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Burning Man 2023 , September 2023 southwestern U.S. floods 
 Heavy flooding at the Burning Man festival in Nevada , United States , kills one person and leaves tens of thousands of people stranded in the Black Rock Desert . Organizers close the festival to vehicles after the death was reported. (AP) 
 International relations 
 
 Nuclear program of Iran 
 Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian says that Iran has started talks to revive the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action . ( Tehran Times ) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Regulation of electronic cigarettes , Smoking in France 
 Prime Minister lisabeth Borne says that France will ban disposable electronic cigarettes as part of an effort to combat smoking. ( The Guardian ) 
 Crime in Panama 
 Panamanian professional footballer Gilberto Hern ndez is shot dead and seven others are wounded by gunmen in Col n, Panama . (BBC News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Aftermath of the 2023 Guatemalan general election 
 Guatemala 's Supreme Electoral Tribunal temporarily reinstates President-elect Bernardo Ar valo 's Semilla party , which had been suspended pending an investigation into alleged registration irregularities. (AFP via France 24) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 2 Next day September 4 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_3&oldid=1190199402 "