
 
 
 October 2, 2023 ( 2023-10-02 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Insurgency in the Sahel 
 Jihadist insurgency in Niger 
 At least 29 soldiers are killed during an ambush by Islamic extremists in the Tahoua Region , Niger , involving suicide car bombs and bombings . Several attackers are killed in a counter-offensive . (BBC News) 
 Kurdish Turkish conflict 
 Turkey launches airstrikes against around 20 PKK targets in northern Iraq , in response to the PKK's bombing of Ankara , killing an unknown number of militants. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Thirty-eight people are injured in a fire at a police facility in Ismailia , Egypt . (Al Jazeera) 
 International relations 
 
 Haitian crisis 
 The United Nations Security Council approves a resolution establishing a Kenyan -led security force with a mandate of one year to combat gang violence in Haiti . ( The New York Times ) 
 Ukraine European Union relations 
 For the first time in the history of the European Union , representatives of all EU states , most of them foreign ministers , meet informally outside the EU. They meet with the Ukrainian government in Kyiv and assure it of their further support. (Euronews) 
 Three Filipino fishermen are killed and eleven others survive after their vessel collides with an unidentified foreign merchant ship near the Scarborough Shoal in the South China Sea . (CNN) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Indigenous peoples in Brazil 
 The government of Brazil begins expelling non- indigenous residents off of the Apyterewa and Trincheira/Bacaj indigenous territories in Par state. (AP) 
 Science and technology 
 
 The European Space Agency reports that the James Webb Space Telescope has detected " Jupiter -sized objects", unconnected to any stars, which appear to be moving in pairs in the Orion constellation . Around 40 of the objects, known as Jupiter Mass Binary Objects , have been detected so far. (BBC News) 
 2023 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 
 Katalin Karik and Drew Weissman are awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for developing technology that resulted in mRNA vaccines for COVID-19 . (BBC News) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 24 AFC Champions League 
 Al-Ittihad refuses to play a match with Sepahan due to the placement of busts of Qasem Soleimani at the side of the football pitch. (Arab News) 
 Month October 2023 Previous day October 1 Next day October 3 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_October_2&oldid=1242517565 "