
 
 
 September 28, 2023 ( 2023-09-28 ) (Thursday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 2023 Azerbaijani offensive in Nagorno-Karabakh 
 Samvel Shahramanyan , president of the breakaway Republic of Artsakh , signs a decree to dissolve all state institutions of Artsakh in 2024. (CNN) 
 2023 Burkina Faso coup d' tat attempt 
 The ruling military government of Burkina Faso arrests four officers suspected of attempting to stage a coup . Two additional officers are on the run. (CNN) 
 2023 Manipur violence 
 More than 80 people are injured during riots that occurred during protests over the murder of two Meitei students in Manipur , India . (Al Jazeera) 
 Jihadist insurgency in Niger 
 Jihadist insurgents kill at least ten Nigerien soldiers in Kandadji, Tillab ri Region , Niger . Seven soldiers are later killed and five others are injured in a vehicle accident while travelling to reinforce the army unit under attack. (Reuters) 
 Mexican drug war 
 Six teenagers who were kidnapped by a group of armed men a few days ago are found dead near Villanueva , Zacatecas , Mexico . ( El Pa s ) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Tashkent explosion 
 One person is killed and 162 others are injured in an explosion at a warehouse near the airport in Tashkent , Uzbekistan . (Al Jazeera) 
 Health and environment 
 
 2023 dengue outbreak in Bangladesh 
 Nearly 1,000 people have died of dengue fever in Bangladesh in recent weeks, in the country's most severe outbreak of the disease so far. (BBC News) 
 A bluetongue disease outbreak in the Netherlands has spread to 319 sheep and cattle farming companies. (NOS) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Rotterdam shootings 
 Three people are killed during two shootings and an arson attack at a teaching hospital and a nearby private home in Rotterdam , Netherlands . (Reuters) 
 Crime in Sweden 
 A woman is killed in her house in Uppsala , Sweden , during a bombing attack intended to target the neighbor next door, while two men were killed and another was injured during two shootings the day before in Stockholm and Jordbro , as deadly violence linked to a feud between criminal gangs escalates. (Euronews) 
 Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson summons the heads of the armed forces and police in response to the gang violence. (Reuters) 
 The historic Sycamore Gap Tree in Northumberland , England , United Kingdom , also known as the " Robin Hood "-tree, is illegally cut down. A 16-year-old boy is arrested. (BBC News) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Gravitational interaction of antimatter 
 The ALPHA experiment shows that antimatter falls down in gravity , just like normal matter. (BBC News) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 27 Next day September 29 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_28&oldid=1178427714 "