
 
 
 November 1, 2022 ( 2022-11-01 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Somali Kenyan conflict , Spillover of the Somali Civil War 
 Kenyan authorities say that an ambulance carrying two paramedics , a patient and a driver has been hijacked with its passengers by al-Shabaab in Mandera County . (Reuters) 
 International relations 
 
 Colombia Venezuela relations 
 Colombian President Gustavo Petro meets with Venezuelan President Nicol s Maduro in Caracas to discuss issues relating to the environment and the re-opening of the border between the two nations, among others. This is the first time that the presidents of Colombia and Venezuela have met since they broke off relations in 2019. (Al Jazeera) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Recognition of same-sex unions in Japan 
 The city of Tokyo officially starts recognizing same-sex relationships by allowing LGBTQ partners to be treated as married couples for some public services in areas such as housing, medicine and welfare. (AFP via France 24) 
 In a report by The Intercept , leaked documents reveal that the United States Department of Homeland Security and the FBI have conducted extensive efforts to influence big tech platforms such as Twitter , Facebook , Reddit , Discord , Microsoft , and Wikipedia in order to censor online information or posts considered by the U.S. government to be disinformation. ( The Intercept ) 
 Spanish prosecutors drop some of the criminal charges against Brazilian footballer Neymar in relation to fraud and corruption. However, it is announced that the case will continue. (France 24) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2022 Brazilian general election 
 Outgoing Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro refuses to concede the election but also announces that he will authorize a transition of power to Luiz In cio Lula da Silva . (Reuters) 
 Bolsonaro supporters block roads in Brazil following his election defeat. (CBS News) 
 2022 Danish general election 
 Danes head to the polls in a snap election to elect a new session to the Folketing . The left-leaning bloc, led by incumbent Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen , is projected to be the clear winner with 87 out of 179 seats, with her Social Democrats party obtaining its highest voter share in decades with 27.5% of the vote. ( The Guardian ) (Reuters) 
 2019 2022 Israeli political crisis , 2022 Israeli legislative election 
 Israelis head to the polls to elect the members of the 25th Knesset . Exit polls show former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's coalition narrowly winning, with 61 to 62 seats out of 120. (BBC News 1) (BBC News 2) 
 Sports 
 
 2022 Melbourne Cup 
 The 2022 Melbourne Cup is won by Gold Trip , ridden by Mark Zahra, at the Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne , Australia . (ABC News Australia) 
 2021 Women's Rugby League World Cup 
 After a year's delay, the Women's Rugby League World Cup begins with the hosts England beating Brazil 72 4 in the opening game at the Headingley Stadium , Leeds . ( The Guardian ) 
 Month November 2022 Previous day October 31 Next day November 2 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_November_1&oldid=1216369822 "