
 
 
 June 15, 2022 ( 2022-06-15 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Kashmir conflict 
 Insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir 
 Indian security forces kill two suspected militants in Jammu and Kashmir , India . (Reuters) 
 Kurdish Turkish conflict 
 Operation Claw-Lock 
 Two people are killed and seven others are injured in a Turkish military action against the Sinjar Resistance Units in Sinjar District , Iraq . A 12-year-old child is reported to be among the deceased. (Reuters) ( Times of Israel ) 
 Russo-Ukrainian War 
 List of foreign aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian War 
 The United States announces a new $1 billion military aid package to Ukraine that includes 18 howitzers , artillery rockets, night vision devices, and for the first time, two Harpoon anti-ship missile units. (Reuters) 
 Yemeni Civil War 
 A Yemeni journalist is assassinated after a bomb explodes inside his car in Aden . (AP) 
 Israel Palestine conflict 
 Mohammad El Halabi , a Palestinian aid worker at the center of an international controversy over his six-year detention in Israel, was convicted on the basis of 'secret evidence'. ( The Guardian ) 
 Business and economy 
 
 2021 2022 inflation surge 
 The Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate by 0.75% to a target range of between 1.5% and 1.75% amid surging inflation . It is the largest interest rate increase in the United States since 1994. (BBC News) 
 International relations 
 
 United Kingdom European Union relations 
 The European Union launches legal action against the United Kingdom , alleging a breach of post- Brexit agreements regarding the Northern Ireland Protocol . (CNN) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Opposition parties in Thailand file a no-confidence motion in prime minister Prayut Chan-o-cha and 10 of his ministers, accusing them of "graft, economic mismanagement and of undermining democracy and clinging to power". (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2026 FIFA World Cup 
 FIFA announces the names of the cities in Canada , Mexico and the United States that will host the FIFA World Cup in 2026. (ESPN) 
 Month June 2022 Previous day June 14 Next day June 16 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2022_June_15&oldid=1260397856 "