
 
 
 June 7, 2024 ( 2024-06-07 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hamas war 
 International reactions to the Israel Hamas war 
 United Nations advisors announce that it intends to add the Israeli military , Hamas , and Palestinian Islamic Jihad to their list of countries and armed groups that harm children in their upcoming "Children and Armed Conflict" report. ( The New York Times ) (Reuters) 
 Humanitarian aid during the Israel Hamas war 
 The United States reinstalls the temporary Gaza floating pier after weather-related damage had to be repaired. (Al Jazeera) 
 Yemeni civil war 
 Red Sea crisis 
 The Houthis detain 11 Yemeni employees of United Nations agencies and others working for aid groups . (AP) 
 According to a Houthi-run television station , the United States and the United Kingdom carry out six airstrikes on Hodeida International Airport , the Port of Salif , and Al-Thawrah , Yemen. (Al Jazeera) 
 Sudanese civil war 
 Battle of Khartoum 
 At least 40 people are killed and 50 others are injured in an attack by the Rapid Support Forces in Omdurman , Sudan . (Al Jazeera) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 Pat Sajak steps down as host of the American television game show Wheel of Fortune , having hosted the show for 41 years. (Associated Press) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 RICH nightclub railing collapse 
 A glass railing collapses outside the overcrowded RICH nightclub in Mexico , causing several concertgoers to fall three stories, killing two and injuring 15. (El Universal) 
 Apollo 8 astronaut William Anders is killed in a plane crash near San Juan County , Washington , United States. (CBS News) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Attack on Mette Frederiksen 
 Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen is shoved by a man, who has since been arrested, in Copenhagen , Denmark . (CNN) 
 Austrian - Canadian billionaire businessman Frank Stronach is arrested on sexual assault charges dating from the 1980s to 2023. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 European Parliament election 
 Elections to the European Parliament continues, with Ireland and the Czech Republic voting today. ( Euronews ) 
 Month June 2024 Previous day June 6 Next day June 8 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_June_7&oldid=1261304994 "