
 
 
 March 29, 2025 ( 2025-03-29 ) (Saturday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Middle Eastern crisis 
 Gaza war 
 March 2025 Israeli attacks on the Gaza Strip 
 The Israeli Defense Forces launch a new ground offensive on Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip . (Al Jazeera) 
 Red Sea crisis 
 March 2025 United States attacks in Yemen 
 One person is killed and four more are injured by U.S. military airstrikes in the Saada Governorate , Yemen . (Yahoo News) 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Kharkiv strikes 
 A Russian drone attack on Kharkiv , Ukraine , kills two people and injures 30 others, including five children. A shopping centre , multi-story residential buildings , a medical facility , and an office building were among those targeted. ( Ukrainska Pravda ) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
 Ten civilians are killed in an alleged anti- insurgents security operation in Katlang, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan . The Pakistani government reports that circumstances will be investigated. (AP) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2025 Brooklyn Park TBM-700 crash 
 A SOCATA TBM-700 crashes into an unoccupied house in Brooklyn Park , Minnesota , United States, killing everyone on board. (FOX9 News) 
 One person is killed and four others are injured in an explosion at a factory in zmir , Turkey . (Caliber) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Protests against Donald Trump 
 Protests against Elon Musk , Protests against the second presidency of Donald Trump 
 Protests are held at Tesla dealerships across the United States , Canada , and Europe to protest against DOGE chief and Tesla CEO Elon Musk 's role in the second Trump administration . ( Taipei Times ) (AP) 
 Gaza war protests 
 Security forces open fire at a pro- Palestine march organized by the Islamic Movement of Nigeria , in Abuja , Nigeria , killing five people and arresting 19 more. A policeman is killed in the subsequent clashes. (AP) 
 Four people are injured in a stabbing attack in Trondheim , Norway , with the perpetrator being arrested. (Euro Weekly News) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Second Syrian transitional government 
 Syrian President Ahmed al-Sharaa announces the creation of a new transitional government , following the fall of the Bashar al-Assad regime . (Reuters) 
 Month March 2025 Previous day March 28 Next day March 30 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_March_29&oldid=1283281263 "