
 
 
 January 17, 2025 ( 2025-01-17 ) (Friday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Gaza war 
 The Security Cabinet of Israel approves the proposed Gaza ceasefire agreement , which is expected to take effect on Sunday. ( The Guardian ) 
 Naxalite Maoist insurgency 
 Twelve Naxalites are killed in a police raid in Bijapur , Chhattisgarh , India . (Al Jazeera) 
 Colombian conflict 
 Nine people are killed during a shootout between Gulf Cartel gunmen and the National Liberation Army (ELN) in Montelibano , C rdoba Department , Colombia . (Barron's) 
 Three people are killed and seven others are injured in clashes with security forces in Juba and Aweil , South Sudan , with three Sudanese -owned houses set on fire in Aweil. This comes after videos emerged allegedly showing Sudanese soldiers killing South Sudanese civilians in Wad Madani , Sudan. (BBC News) 
 Business and economy 
 
 British oil and gas company BP announces that it will lay off 4,700 employees and 3,000 contractors globally to reduce costs. (AP) 
 Health and environment 
 
 The Zimbabwean Ministry of Health reports that a new cholera outbreak that started in December 2024 has reached eight districts and infected nearly 300 people, causing one death. (DW) 
 International relations 
 
 2024 United States telecommunications hack 
 The U.S. Treasury Department sanctions a cybersecurity company and hacker, both with ties to China 's Ministry of State Security , for their alleged roles in hacking American telecommunications companies. (Reuters) 
 Iran Russia relations 
 Iranian president Masoud Pezeshkian and Russian president Vladimir Putin sign the Iranian Russian Treaty on Comprehensive Strategic Partnership . The 20-year deal will see cooperation between the two countries in multiple areas, including nuclear energy , counterterrorism , and environmental issues. (Middle East Eye) 
 Law and crime 
 
 TikTok v. Garland 
 The United States Supreme Court upholds a law that could ban TikTok in the United States on January 19 unless the social media platform is sold by its Chinese parent company ByteDance . (AP) 
 A judge in Bolivia orders the arrest of former Bolivian President Evo Morales on statutory rape charges. ( The Guardian ) 
 Brazilian police raid a ranch in Ponta Grossa , South Region, Brazil , in an operation to dismantle a gang planning large-scale bank heists , killing six suspects and seizing weapons, including a .50-caliber machine gun and explosives. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 Colombian conflict 
 Colombian President Gustavo Petro suspends dialogue with the National Liberation Army following accusations of war crimes against the group. (Reuters) 
 Second inauguration of Donald Trump 
 U.S. President-elect Donald Trump announces that his upcoming second inauguration will be held indoors at the United States Capitol rotunda due to cold temperatures forecasts. Trump also announces that the inaugural parade will be held indoors at Capital One Arena in Washington D.C. (Reuters) 
 Didier Guillaume , the head of government of Monaco , dies suddenly at the age of 65. Isabelle Berro-Lef vre is appointed acting Minister of State by Prince Albert II . (Monaco Tribune) 
 Science and technology 
 
 Censorship of TikTok 
 TikTok warns that it could "go dark" on Sunday without assistance from outgoing U.S. President Joe Biden and his administration . (Politico) 
 Month January 2025 Previous day January 16 Next day January 18 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2025_January_17&oldid=1272913263 "