
 
 
 November 13, 2024 ( 2024-11-13 ) (Wednesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Israel Hezbollah conflict 
 2024 Israeli invasion of Lebanon 
 Six Israeli soldiers from the Golani Brigade are killed in a three-hour gun battle with Hezbollah militants in southern Lebanon . (Le Monde) 
 Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Insurgency in Balochistan 
 Twelve Pakistani Taliban gunmen are killed and six wounded in two separated shootouts with soldiers in the districts of Kech and North Waziristan . (AP) 
 Business and economy 
 
 United Kingdom cost-of-living crisis 
 British DIY retailer Homebase collapses into administration , threatening up to 2,000 jobs. (BBC News) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 2024 Indo-Pakistani smog 
 New Delhi , India , reports its 15th consecutive day with a "very poor" recorded air quality index due to significant air pollution causing zero meter visibility smog . ( The Hindu ) 
 2024 Spanish floods 
 Thousands of Spaniards living near river banks are evacuated following the issuing of AEMET 's maximum weather alert in the Province of M laga , Costa del Sol , and the Valencian Community caused by a new cold drop system. ( The Independent ) 
 International relations 
 
 Israel Turkey relations 
 Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdo an announces that Turkey has suspended all diplomatic relations with and will not develop any further relations with Israel . However, the Turkish embassy in Tel Aviv , Israel, will continue to operate. Israel's foreign ministry denies any change in its diplomatic relationship with Turkey. (JNS) ( Newsweek ) (Middle East Eye) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2024 Bras lia attack 
 Two explosions occurs near the Supreme Federal Court building and the Pra a dos Tr s Poderes in Bras lia , Brazil . The perpetrator dies by suicide bombing , being the only fatality. The Federal Police announces an investigation into the explosions, while the Attorney General's Office calls the situation "an attack against the Supreme Federal Court and the Chamber of Deputies ". (G1) (CNN) 
 Bulldozer Justice 
 The Supreme Court of India rules that it is unconstitutional for the government to demolish property belonging to people suspected of crimes without a legal process , a practice common in states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party . ( The Times of India ) (DW) 
 International Criminal Court investigation in the Philippines , Philippine drug war 
 The Philippines says it is bound to help the International Criminal Court if the international court seeks custody of former President Rodrigo Duterte through Interpol over alleged crimes against humanity committed during the Philippine drug war . (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 2024 United States presidential election 
 Second presidential transition of Donald Trump 
 Outgoing U.S. President Joe Biden meets with President-elect Donald Trump in the White House and pledges a peaceful transition of power . (Reuters) 
 2024 Somaliland presidential election 
 Citizens of Somaliland vote for the President between incumbent Muse Bihi Abdi of the Kulmiye party, House of Representatives speaker Abdirahman Mohamed Abdullahi of the Waddani party, and Faysal Ali Warabe of the Justice and Welfare Party . (VOA) (DW) 
 Israel Hamas war protests 
 Crowds of pro-Palestinian protesters gather in Paris , France , against a gala raising funds for the Israel Defense Forces and included guests such as Israeli finance minister Bezalel Smotrich . (France 24) 
 Month November 2024 Previous day November 12 Next day November 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2024_November_13&oldid=1292000289 "