
 
 
 September 4, 2023 ( 2023-09-04 ) (Monday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Colombian conflict 
 Nine people are killed and five others are injured in clashes between FARC dissidents and the National Liberation Army (ELN) in Arauca , Colombia . It occurs as the ELN concludes a fourth round of peace talks with the government . (AFP via The Daily Star ) 
 Internal conflict in Peru 
 Four Peruvian soldiers and two Shining Path militants are killed in a clash in Huanta Province , Peru , in the early morning hours. (Al Jazeera) 
 Syrian civil war 
 Eastern Syria insurgency 
 Deir ez-Zor clashes (2023) 
 An SDF counterattack recaptures all areas lost to tribal fighters and the SNA except for one town. (SOHR) 
 Displacement of civilians is reported in Northeastern Syria amid intense multi-sided clashes. (SOHR) 
 Business and economy 
 
 American consumer packaged goods holding company Conagra Brands recalls over 245,000 pounds of Banquet frozen chicken over concerns of plastic contamination . (Fox Business) 
 The 13-kilometre-long (8-mile) Lagos Rail Mass Transit Blue Line rapid transit system begins service in Lagos , Nigeria , after being delayed since 1983. (Al Jazeera) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Five people are killed and three more are missing during floods across Spain . The heaviest rains occurred in the coastal provinces of C diz , Tarragona and Castell n . (The Local Europe) 
 Law and crime 
 
 Relocation of Marine Corps Air Station Futenma 
 The Supreme Court of Japan orders Okinawa to allow the United States Armed Forces to expand its runways and military infrastructure on the island despite protests from locals opposing the American military's presence. (AP) 
 Politics and elections 
 
 The parliament of Vanuatu elects Sato Kilman as the new prime minister , replacing Ishmael Kalsakau . Vanuatu entered a political crisis after opposition parties lodged a no-confidence petition criticizing then Kalsakau for signing a security pact with Australia . (Reuters) 
 Month September 2023 Previous day September 3 Next day September 5 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_September_4&oldid=1243006032 "