
 
 
 June 13, 2023 ( 2023-06-13 ) (Tuesday) 
 
 edit history watch 
 
 
 
 Armed conflicts and attacks 
 
 Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
 Russian rockets hit a residential building in the city of Kryvyi Rih , Dnipropetrovsk oblast , killing 11 people and injuring 28 others. (Al Jazeera) (AP) 
 Arts and culture 
 
 The Grammys announce new award categories: Best Pop Dance Recording, Best Alternative Jazz Album and Best African Music Performance. (Pitchfork) 
 Disasters and accidents 
 
 Kwara boat disaster 
 At least 100 people are killed when a wedding boat capsizes on the Niger River in Kwara State , Nigeria . (Sky News) 
 2023 North Indian Ocean cyclone season 
 Cyclone Biparjoy approaches India and Pakistan , with seven people being killed in India. (Reuters) 
 Two people are injured and buildings are damaged by a magnitude 5.0 earthquake in Jammu and Kashmir , India. (The Hindustan Times) 
 Fifteen people are killed and two others are injured after a minibus collides into a parked pickup truck in El Saff , Egypt . (AP) 
 Fifteen people are killed and several others are injured when two passenger buses collide with a truck between Fana and Konobougou , Mali . (AP) 
 Law and crime 
 
 2023 Nottingham attacks 
 Three people are killed in two stabbings and three others are injured in a vehicle-ramming attack in Nottingham , England . Police arrest a 31-year-old West African man in connection with the attacks. (BBC News) 
 Nine people are injured in a mass shooting in Denver , Colorado , United States . (BBC News) 
 The Legislative Assembly of El Salvador votes to reduce the number of municipalities in the country from 262 to 44 ahead of the general elections in 2024 . (Reuters) 
 Sports 
 
 2023 CONCACAF Gold Cup 
 In association football , Nicaragua is banned from the 2023 CONCACAF Gold Cup for fielding an ineligible player for eight matches and will be replaced by Trinidad and Tobago . (CBS Sports) 
 2023 Stanley Cup playoffs 
 In ice hockey , the Vegas Golden Knights win their first Stanley Cup after defeating the Florida Panthers in five games of a best-of-seven series in the Stanley Cup Finals . Canadian forward Jonathan Marchessault wins the Conn Smythe Trophy . (The Sporting News) 
 Month June 2023 Previous day June 12 Next day June 14 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events/2023_June_13&oldid=1236756221 "